year	2005
imdb score	2.3
meta score	9
genre	Action
genre	Horror
keyword	detective
keyword	darkness
keyword	demon
keyword	artifact
keyword	experiment
keyword	orphan
keyword	battle
keyword	creature
keyword	professor
keyword	car accident
keyword	curator
keyword	laboratory
keyword	love
keyword	super strength
keyword	fight
keyword	tracking device
keyword	laptop
keyword	lasersight
keyword	airport
keyword	delivery boy
keyword	stabbed in the back
keyword	agent
keyword	animal attack
keyword	film starts with text
keyword	cell phone
keyword	based on video game
keyword	tank
keyword	orphanage
keyword	helicopter
keyword	revolver
keyword	machine gun
keyword	self sacrifice
keyword	stabbed in the chest
keyword	blood
keyword	babe scientist
keyword	blonde
keyword	woods
keyword	paranormal phenomena
keyword	shot in the head
keyword	shot in the knee
keyword	bullet time
keyword	killing an animal
keyword	impalement
keyword	box office flop
keyword	corpse
keyword	explosion
keyword	held at gunpoint
keyword	possession
keyword	foot chase
keyword	knife
keyword	ambiguous ending
keyword	shot in the shoulder
keyword	government agent
keyword	secret government organization
keyword	falling from height
keyword	commander
keyword	ship
keyword	monster
keyword	timebomb
keyword	gore
keyword	flashback
keyword	taxi ride
keyword	knife in chest
keyword	subterranean
keyword	invisibility
keyword	car chase
keyword	murder
keyword	blood splatter
keyword	archeologist
keyword	pistol
keyword	fear
keyword	cave
keyword	handgun
keyword	taxi
keyword	shot in the leg
keyword	gatling gun
keyword	spin off from video game
keyword	evacuated city
keyword	booby trap
keyword	computer
keyword	shot in the arm
keyword	eaten alive
keyword	scientist
keyword	military
keyword	massacre
keyword	disembowelment
keyword	shot in the face
keyword	paranormal investigation
keyword	super speed
keyword	injection
keyword	woman with glasses
keyword	taxi driver
keyword	shot in the back
keyword	crashing through a window
keyword	blood on camera lens
keyword	chase
keyword	decapitation
keyword	autopsy
keyword	shot in the forehead
keyword	grenade
keyword	captain
keyword	axe
keyword	cult film
keyword	alien
keyword	sheriff
keyword	storm cellar
keyword	split head
keyword	sex
keyword	missing people
keyword	critically bashed
keyword	knife in the chest
keyword	slow motion scene
keyword	stabbed in the head
keyword	bulletproof vest
keyword	nun
keyword	exploding building
keyword	torso cut in half
keyword	jumping through a window
keyword	car crash
keyword	doctor
keyword	museum
keyword	knife throwing
keyword	no opening credits
keyword	former agent
keyword	child in peril
keyword	hypodermic needle
keyword	special forces
keyword	full moon
keyword	martial arts
keyword	bridge
keyword	evil scientist
keyword	bitten on the arm
keyword	severed arm
keyword	microscope
keyword	mercenary
keyword	airplane trip
keyword	glock
keyword	mad scientist
keyword	geiger counter
keyword	motorcycle
keyword	severed head
keyword	stabbed to death
keyword	voice over narration
keyword	soldier
keyword	rifle
keyword	airplane
keyword	abandoned mine
keyword	jumping from height
keyword	relic
keyword	shot to death
keyword	supernatural power
keyword	electro magnetic pulse
keyword	x rayed skeleton
keyword	surprise ending
cast	Christian Slater	Edward Carnby
cast	Tara Reid	Aline Cedrac
cast	Stephen Dorff	Cmdr. Richard Burke
cast	Frank C. Turner	Sam Fischer
cast	Matthew Walker	Prof. Lionel Hudgens
cast	Will Sanderson	Agent Miles
cast	Mark Acheson	Captain Chernick
cast	Darren Shahlavi	John Dillon
cast	Karin Konoval	Sister Clara
cast	Craig Bruhnanski	80's Sheriff
cast	Kwesi Ameyaw	Deputy Adams
cast	Dustyn Arthurs	Young Edward
cast	Catherine Lough Haggquist	Krash
cast	Ed Anders	James Pinkerton
cast	Brad Turner	Beat Cop
cast	Michael P. Northey	Guard
cast	Malcolm Scott	Delivery Guy
cast	Ryan Drescher	Young Boy
cast	Sean Campbell	First Mate
cast	Sarah Deakins	Linda
cast	Daniel Cudmore	Agent Barr
cast	Fran√ßoise Yip	Agent Cheung
cast	Ho-Sung Pak	Agent Marko
cast	Mike Dopud	Agent Turner
cast	Brendan Fletcher	Cabbie
cast	Donna Lysell	Sarah Fischer
cast	Ona Grauer	Agent Feenstra
cast	John Fallon	Agent Yonek
cast	Rebekah Postey	Sophie
cast	Robert Bruce	Crewman Barnes
cast	Dean Redman	Agent Richards
cast	Antonio Maiurano	Agent Tony
cast	John Ulmer	Patrolman #2
