year	1969
imdb score	8.1
meta score	N/A
genre	Western
keyword	outlaw
keyword	bounty
keyword	mexico
keyword	texas
keyword	mexican
keyword	bank robbery
keyword	train
keyword	gun
keyword	frontier
keyword	mexican army
keyword	gore
keyword	shootout
keyword	one last job
keyword	machine gun
keyword	shot in the back
keyword	bullet ballet
keyword	child in peril
keyword	rifle
keyword	gun battle
keyword	rebellion
keyword	weapons shipment
keyword	skinny dipping
keyword	murder
keyword	arms theft
keyword	dead woman
keyword	ambush
keyword	mexican soldier
keyword	shot in the leg
keyword	throat slitting
keyword	bank heist
keyword	shot in the chest
keyword	cult director
keyword	gatling gun
keyword	shooting a woman
keyword	death
keyword	blood
keyword	integrity
keyword	montage
keyword	gang leader
keyword	bullet time
keyword	bare breasts
keyword	blood splatter
keyword	cult film
keyword	1910s
keyword	regret
keyword	moral corruption
keyword	armed child
keyword	honor
keyword	machismo
keyword	heist
keyword	flashback
keyword	violence
keyword	wind
keyword	animal cruelty
keyword	sex
keyword	mexican civil war
keyword	outcast
keyword	explosion
keyword	mirror
keyword	gun duel
keyword	resistance
keyword	actual animal killed
keyword	doom
keyword	anti hero
keyword	husband wife relationship
keyword	female frontal nudity
keyword	vigilante
keyword	controversy
keyword	marriage
keyword	knife
keyword	opening action scene
keyword	shot to death
keyword	epic
keyword	female nudity
keyword	famous score
keyword	dragged by a horse
keyword	theft
keyword	train robbery
keyword	treachery
keyword	brutality
keyword	u.s. mexico border
keyword	year 1913
keyword	arms smuggling
keyword	shot in the face
keyword	wilhelm scream
keyword	torture
keyword	slow motion scene
keyword	pancho villa
keyword	street shootout
keyword	commitment
keyword	exploding bridge
keyword	trampled to death
keyword	afi
keyword	shooting
keyword	capitalism
keyword	vulture
keyword	courage
keyword	nipples
keyword	mercenary
keyword	code of honor
keyword	gunfight
keyword	thief
keyword	atrocity
keyword	mexican revolution
keyword	hostage
keyword	scorpion
keyword	shot in the head
keyword	loss of friend
keyword	cult film
keyword	surrealism
keyword	hooker
keyword	hidden gun
keyword	blood
keyword	
cast	William Holden	Pike Bishop
cast	Ernest Borgnine	Dutch Engstrom
cast	Robert Ryan	Deke Thornton
cast	Edmond O'Brien	Freddie Sykes
cast	Warren Oates	Lyle Gorch
cast	Jaime Sánchez	Angel
cast	Ben Johnson	Tector Gorch
cast	Emilio Fernández	Mapache
cast	Strother Martin	Coffer
cast	L.Q. Jones	T.C
cast	Albert Dekker	Harrigan
cast	Bo Hopkins	Crazy Lee
cast	Dub Taylor	Wainscoat
cast	Paul Harper	Ross
cast	Jorge Russek	Zamorra
cast	Alfonso Arau	Herrera
cast	Chano Urueta	Don Jose
cast	Elsa Cárdenas	Elsa
cast	Bill Hart	Jess
cast	Rayford Barnes	Buck
cast	Stephen Ferry	McHale
cast	Sonia Amelio	Teresa
cast	Aurora Clavel	Aurora
cast	Enrique Lucero	Ignacio
cast	Elizabeth Dupeyrón	Rocio
cast	Yolanda Ponce	Yolis
cast	José Chávez	Juan Jose
cast	René Dupeyrón	Juan
cast	Pedro Galván	Benson
cast	Graciela Doring	Emma
cast	Major Perez	Perez
cast	Fernando Wagner	Mohr
cast	Jorge Rado	Ernst
cast	Ivan Scott	Paymaster
cast	Señora Madero	Margaret
cast	Margarito Luna	Luna
cast	Chalo González	Gonzalez
cast	Lilia Castillo	Lilia
cast	Elizabeth Unda	Carmen
cast	Julio Corona	Julio
cast	Gordon T. Dawson	Pinkerton Man
cast	'Chico' Hernandez	Boy on Town
cast	Buck Holland	Thornton Posse Rider
cast	Matthew Peckinpah	Boy Watching Robber Scoop Up Moneybag
