year	1973
imdb score	7.5
meta score	N/A
genre	Crime
genre	Drama
keyword	little italy
keyword	epilepsy
keyword	new york
keyword	new york city
keyword	bar
keyword	money
keyword	drive by shooting
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	monogrammed shirt
keyword	playing pool
keyword	brass band
keyword	violence
keyword	ethnic identity
keyword	exotic dancer
keyword	convulsion
keyword	dressing room
keyword	bare chested male
keyword	marlboro cigarettes
keyword	cult film
keyword	sex
keyword	catholicism
keyword	brawl
keyword	con artist
keyword	lion cub
keyword	peeping
keyword	playing with a lit match
keyword	street gang
keyword	party
keyword	low life
keyword	mafia
keyword	explosion
keyword	neo noir
keyword	letter bomb
keyword	drunkenness
keyword	cemetery
keyword	shot in men's room
keyword	run over fire hydrant
keyword	italian american
keyword	catholic guilt
keyword	bar fight
keyword	redemption
keyword	imagery
keyword	fight
keyword	religion
keyword	car crash
keyword	murder
keyword	gun in mouth
keyword	bomb in mailbox
keyword	improvisation
keyword	black comedy
keyword	woman wearing a g string
keyword	shot in the neck
keyword	critically acclaimed
keyword	caged animal
keyword	mailbox
keyword	close up of breasts
keyword	alcohol
keyword	couple walking on a beach
keyword	product placement
keyword	close up of eye
keyword	stripper
keyword	racial slur
keyword	psychopath
keyword	snorricam
keyword	camera shot of hand
keyword	women changing clothes
keyword	tan lines
keyword	woman wearing pasties
keyword	female nudity
keyword	gangster
keyword	strip club
keyword	machismo
keyword	organized crime
keyword	two word title
keyword	shot in the back
keyword	confession
keyword	salvation
keyword	
cast	Robert De Niro	Johnny Boy
cast	Harvey Keitel	Charlie
cast	David Proval	Tony
cast	Amy Robinson	Teresa
cast	Richard Romanus	Michael
cast	Cesare Danova	Giovanni
cast	Victor Argo	Mario
cast	George Memmoli	Joey
cast	Lenny Scaletta	Jimmy
cast	Jeannie Bell	Diane
cast	Murray Moston	Oscar
cast	David Carradine	Drunk
cast	Robert Carradine	Boy With Gun
cast	Lois Walden	Jewish Girl
cast	Harry Northup	Soldier
cast	Dino Seragusa	Old Man
cast	D'Mitch Davis	Cop
cast	Peter Fain	George
cast	Juli Andelman	Girl At Party
cast	Robert Wilder	Benton
cast	Ken Sinclair	Sammy
cast	Jaime Alba	Young Boy #1
cast	Ken Konstantin	Young Boy #2
cast	Nicki 'Ack' Aquilino	Man On Docks
cast	B. Mitchel Reed	Disc Jockey
cast	Vincent Price	Verden Fell
cast	Catherine Scorsese	Woman on Landing
cast	Martin Scorsese	Jimmy Shorts
