I am Legend



                    Screenplay by Mark Protosevich
                    based on the novel by Richard Matheson


































          In 1995, researchers at the University of Kansas used
          viruses linked to healthy respiratory cells to destroy and
          replace diseased cells in patients afflicted with lung
          cancer.

          In 1997, scientists at the Krippen Center for Genetic 
          Research in Berkeley, California made a significant 
          stride forward. By manipulating the genetic 
          information in a common blood cell and infusing it 
          with the characteristics of a potent virus, they were 
          able to create a biological warrior cell--the viragene. 
          Once introduced into a host, the viragene could hunt 
          and obliterate the body's natural enemies--tumors, 
          thickening arteries, decaying bone. Anything. The 
          'enemy' would be consumed, digested, and 
          transformed into energy to fuel the viragene. It was a 
          perfect tool. And the possibilities were limitless. AIDS, 
          cancer, muscular dystrophy, even the flu--the viragene
          could beat them all.

          The first human trials began in March of 1998. The
          initial trial group, dubbed the 'Krippen Ten', were 
          afflicted with leukemia. These individuals, along with 
          Dr. Krippen, were about to make more than medical 
          history. They were to forever change the course of 
          humanity.





"Being unconquerable lies with yourself; being conquerable lies with the 
enemy."

Sun Tzu, The Art of War.


"We used to wonder where war lived, what it was that made it so vile. And now 
we realize
that we know where it lives. That it is inside ourselves."

Albert Camus, Notebooks.


"'Let there be light!' said God, and there was light. 'Let there be blood!' 
says man, and
there's a sea!"

Lord Byron, Don Juan.

A VIDEO IMAGE FLICKERS TO LIFE.  A ruggedly handsome man with dark, haunted 
eyes.  Eyes that have seen hell.

                    NEVILLE
          My name is Robert Neville.  Today is October 17th,
          the year 2002.  I was born in 1960, on this very day,
          so that makes today my birthday.  (remembering)
          Every year for my birthday, my wife Ellen would throw
          me a party.  A kid's party.  Cake, ice cream, funny hats,
          "Pin the Tail on the Donkey".  One year she rented a pony.
          It didn't matter that we were grown-ups and this was all
          kind of silly to the neighbors.  She just did things like 
that.
          She brought such joy into everything she did, everything
          she touched... (too nostalgic)  I am forty-two today.
          I feel fine.  I feel fit.  My mental state is... pretty good.
          (withdraws)  Let's start over.  (focuses)
          My name is Robert Neville.  I was born forty-two years
          ago in Des Moines, Iowa.  I had a wife Ellen and a daughter
          Grace.  My father's name was Bill and my mother's 
          Charlotte.  They were farm people.
          I hope...  Someday...  When someone finds these tapes...
          You will know who I was.  What I was about.
          What I tried to do.  What I try to do. (withdraws)
          I think I killed six last night.

THE VIDEO IMAGE TURNS TO STATIC.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

ROBERT NEVILLE switches off the VIDEO CAMERA pointed at him.  He collapses 
the tripod and rests the apparatus in a corner.  He wears shorts, a t-shirt, 
tennis shoes.  He slices a CD into an impressive MUSIC SYSTEM and Mahler's 
"Resurrection" Symphony BLASTS from speakers throughout the house.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - EXERCISE ROOM - DAY

A serious workout facility.  Weights, boxer's heavy bag, rowing machine, etc.  
Neville pushes himself through a series of strenuous exercises.  His body is 
in fantastic shape.  Taught muscle.  Lean, not bulky.  His movements are 
lithe, almost graceful.  More track athlete than body builder.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - SHOWER - DAY

Neville washes his body and we notice the SCARS.  On his ankles, wrists, 
neck, stomach, back.  A few are the results of crude stitches, the others...  
Bite marks ?  Scratches ?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIBRARY - DAY

Neville passes shelves filled with COMPACT DISCS, AUDIO CASSETTES, and 
VIDEOTAPES.  Another section filled with BOOKS and PAINTINGS.  Only a 
carefully selected few hang on the walls--Degas, Klee, Rothko, Van Gogh.  The 
rest are stacked like pallets.  They must be copies.  Mustn't they?

A TELEVISION gives us the "Today Show", A RADIO, NPR's "Morning Edition", 
"Resurrection" in the background.  A wall of sound.  The sound of everyday 
life.  Normal life. Neville descends a SPIRAL STAIRCASE leading to the GROUND 
FLOOR.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GREENHOUSE - DAY

Neville strolls the aisles of a hothouse.  Vegetables, fruit, herbs, 
potatoes.  All in carefully compartmentalized lots.  Panes of glass on the 
roof allow in SUNLIGHT.

Neville notices a loose screw on a shutter and pulls a SQUARE of METAL from 
his pocket.  It's an ALL-IN-ONE-TOOL--something Neville is never without.  
Only two inches-by-two inches, it has a screwdriver tip, a serrated 'saw' 
edge, a knife edge, magnifying glass, etc.

Neville tightens the screw, holds the tool in his teeth--a habit--and makes 
sure the window is shut tight.  Neville picks a few strawberries, checks the 
Condition of a tomato plant, and trims a vine with the knife side of the 
tool.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

Neville sits at a table eating a bowl of oatmeal with fresh s-strawberries, 
sipping a cup of coffee.  On a wall mounted TELEVISION, Katie Couric and 
Bryant Gumbel.  Neville watches 
with an almost disturbing gaze.  He mouths along with them, somehow 
anticipating the "live" 
dialogue...

                    NEVILLE / KATIE
          And for those of us who'd like to lose a 
          few pounds, Dr. Art Ulene will be here to 
          tell us about his new weight loss plan...

(If we paid attention we'd notice the information contained in the TV show 
and radio "broadcast" is old and familiar.  We know these stories.  There's 
nothing "new" about the news.)

Outside, we HEAR a DOG BARKING.

Neville enters a ROOM adjacent to the kitchen--a state-of-the-art MEDICAL 
FACILITY. Operating table, pharmacy, I.V.s, EKG, surgical equipment, you name 
it.  He uses a hypodermic to withdraw BLOOD from his arm.  He fills two 
plastic vials and tosses the syringe into a BIOHAZARD waste bin.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Spartan.  Bed, reading lamp, a few books.  A PHOTO of his wife and child. on 
the wall, an HISTORICAL PAINTING showing Napoleon's surrender at Waterloo.  
Nearby, within a second's grasp from bedside, are a SHOTGUN and a .44 MAGNUM.

At a closet filled with very few clothes--all the same type--Neville loses 
the robe and steps into a BLACK TIGHT-FITTING BODYSUIT.  Similar to a diver's 
wetsuit, but the material is more flexible.  It's some type of protective 
undergarment, composed of a Kevlar-like mesh.

He dons a Kevlar vest, a work shirt and durable pants.  He slips on combat 
boots, tucks the pants into them, and TAPES THEM . He adds a "utility" belt 
and fits the BLOOD VIALS into a secure pouch.  He straps on two wristwatches 
and chains an ELECTRONIC POCKET WATCH to his belt.  Again, the DOG BARKS 
outside.

                    NEVILLE
          All right, all right.  Keep your fur on.

He picks up a REMOTE CONTROL and switches off the TV, radio, and music.  It's 
replaced by an EERIE SILENCE.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

A no-frills underground garage.  A LAND ROVER, SPORTS CAR, and MOTORCYCLE. 
(Now shut off, the walls are lined with HALOGEN LAMPS.) Neville walks to an 
electronic control panel and hits a button.  The garage door opens, but it 
doesn't open vertically.  Instead, a horizontal panel slides back, parallel 
with the earth's surface, revealing a slanted cement ramp leading to the 
garage below.

SUNLIGHT pours in from above.  The DOG BARKS.  A MUSCULAR CANINE silhouetted 
at the top.  Neville WHISTLES.  The dog bounds down the ramp, delighted to 
see its master.  Neville reacts coldly.  No, "Hi, boy, how ya doin'?!" 
Nothing.  We know the dog wants a reaction, but Neville is firm.  He opens a 
CABINET, grabs a bag, and pours some chow.  The dog hungrily devours his 
breakfast and Neville sees the bag is empty.  He opens ANOTHER and finds it's 
CRAWLING WITH ANTS.

                    NEVILLE
          Terrific.

He dumps the infested bag into a trash Container.  Neville whistles and 
points to the Land Rover.  The dog leaps into the vehicle.  Neville shuts the 
passenger door and we see the Rover has been customized.  The roof, hood, 
doors, and trunk are crisscrossed with BARBED WIRE.  All windows--save the 
windshield, and that is protected by chicken wire--have been replaced by 
THICK METAL PLATES.  SLITS are cut into the steel, but visibility is limited.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DAY

Neville climbs behind the wheel.  The interior of the vehicle is outfitted 
with emergency medical supplies, flares, heavy-duty flashlights, lamps, rope, 
wire, tools.  The dog settles an a blanket an the floor.  Neville hits a few 
switches and CLOSED-CIRCUIT MONITORS flicker to life.  Via video, they show 
the side and rear views from the Land Rover.  Neville starts her up and the 
souped-up engine ROARS to life.  We stay within the Land Rover as it ascends 
the ramp.

                    NEVILLE
               (donning sunglasses)
          Another beautiful day.


EXT.  CITY STREET - DAY

The Land Rover speeds along.  We vaguely recognize the road as one of streets 
of SAN FRANCISCO, but something's wrong.  The road is in great disrepair and 
littered with debris.  The trees are barren, the area deathly silent, and 
there is absolutely no other traffic.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DAY

Neville continues to listen to Resurrection an the Rover's CD player.  He 
spots a DRIVE-WAY and turns into it.


EXT.  RADIO STATION - DAY

High on a hill sits an abandoned broadcasting facility and tower.  This too 
is in utter disrepair.  The Land Rover is parked outside, the dog an guard.  
A desolate wind whistles.


INT.  RADIO STATION - BASEMENT - DAY

Very familiar with the equipment, Neville connects wires, throws switches, 
and powers up the EMERGENCY GENERATOR.


INT.  RADIO STATION - DJ BOOTH / CONTROL ROOM - DAY

Neville adjusts the mixing panel and takes a seat behind a microphone. 
(Throughout this scene we will notice that the radio station looks like a 
tornado blew through it.)

                    NEVILLE
          Good Morning San Francisco.  Big Bob Neville 
          here with you this morning, as I am every morning.  
          Monday through Sunday, seven days a week, three 
          hundred and sixty five fucking days a year.  Traffic?  
          There is none.  Weather?  Who cares.  News?  I'm still 
          alive.  What about you, San Francisco?  How 'bout 
          giving me a call?  1-800-F-U-C-K-Y-O-U.

He glances to his right.  The Telephone switchboard panel is shattered, dead, 
covered with dust.

                    NEVILLE
          Wow.  The board's lit up like a Christmas tree.  
          Too bad our time is up.  If you would like to see 
          me in the flesh, however, I'll be doing a personal 
          appearance this afternoon at Golden Gate Park.  
          Today and every day.  12 Noon.  All you have to do 
          is show up. (dead air)  Please  (more silence, then 
          pops a tape cart into a player)  I leave you today 
          with one of my favorites.  I know you're sick of the 
          fact that I only play classical music, but frankly, I don't 
          care.  I like it.  And right now... that's all that matters.

An Eric Satie piano concerto.  Melancholy and haunting.


EXT.  DOWNTOWN STREETS- VARIOUS - DAY

MUSIC CONTINUES as the Land Rover cruises through the heart of the city.  We 
don't spend much time here and it's frustrating, because we can't fully 
comprehend the visual make-up of downtown.  The streets are deserted, litter 
and dust blow freely with the wind and the buildings look ravaged.  Looted?  
Burned?  Destroyed by earthquake?


EXT.  PET STORE - DAY

Neville and the dog exit the Rover and for the first time we notice Neville 
wears a shoulder holster containing a .45 automatic. and carries an M-16 
machine gun.  A high-intensity flashlight is attached to the machine gun 
barrel and extra ammo clips taped to its handle.


INT.  PET STORE - DAY

Merchandise is scattered on the floor--chew toys, plastic bones, etc.--and 
the dog is drawn to it.  Neville whistles and the dog obeys, disappointed.  
Neville switches on the flashlight and heads for a STORAGE ROOM.


INT.  PET STORE - STORAGE ROOM - DAY

Neville KICKS IN the door.  The flashlight beam dances to all corners.  
Nothing but old supplies.  The dog prances in and leads Neville to the bags 
of chow.  He hefts them onto his shoulder.  Whistles.  The dog doesn't 
follow.  His vision is locked on a thick piece of rawhide.  He turns his sad 
eyes to Neville, who gives in, nods.  The dog happily grabs it between his 
teeth.


EXT.  GOLDEN GATE PARK - DAY

The monuments still remain, but the grass is scorched, tall, and dry.  
Neville eats a sandwich he made at home and the dog chews the rawhide.  
Neville checks his watch. 12:45.  Scans the area.  Absolutely no one in 
sight.  Forlornly, he stares at the ground, the cracks in the pavement... 
Alone.


EXT.  DOWNTOWN STREET - DAY

The streets are abandoned, buildings deserted.  The Land Rover parked at an 
intersection, the dog on lookout.  Neville stands beneath a lamp post, a coil 
of WIRE over his shoulder.  He measures a length, tosses it over the arm of 
the post, and creates an old-fashioned SNAPE out of the cable.  He adjusts, 
tightens, and pulls one of the vials of blood from his utility belt.  He 
takes a rag, douses it with the blood, and positions it as "bait" in the 
snare.  Satisfied with the trap, he whistles for the dog and returns to the 
Land Rover.


EXT.  ANOTHER STREET - DAY

Neville sets another snare.


EXT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

The Land Rover pulls to a stop in front of what used to be Nieman-Marcus.  
Right now, it looks like a ghetto tenement.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DAY

Neville's eyes are glued to something across the street... 


EXT.  STREET - DAY

A BODY dangles from one of Neville's traps--one he must have set a previous 
day.  It hangs limply, ankle ensnared by the cable, its head hanging a few 
feet above the ground.


EXT.  LAND ROVER / STREET - DAY

With the dog at his heels, Neville chambers a round in the .45 and approaches 
the body.

ANOTHER ANGLE

Quite abruptly, we are watching Neville from across the street, HIGH ABOVE, 
from a sixth or seventh story window.  We HEAR movement and labored 
breathing.

BACK ON THE STREET

Neville reaches the body and spins it around.  As soon as he sees the face of 
a MANNEQUIN, he knows he's fucked.

THE HIGH ANGLE

We HEAR a bolt slide on a rifle and we realize we're watching Neville through 
a SNIPER'S SCOPE.  Neville's chest dead in our sights.  We FIRE.

BACK ON THE STREET

Neville hits the dirt.  The first bullet EXPLODES in asphalt.  Neville rolls.  
The second bullet just misses him.  He DASHES behind an abandoned car, 
escaping yet another shot from the sniper.  The dog stands in the middle of 
the street, BARKING at an upper story window in Nieman-Marcus.  Neville 
shouts...

                    NEVILLE
          GET OUT OF THE STREET!

The dog continues to , its eyes on a specific section of the building.  
Neville steals a glance and sees a RIFLE BARREL poking out of a shattered 
window frame.  ANOTHER SHOT whistles past the dog's fur.  The beast flinches, 
afraid.

                    NEVILLE
          GET OVER HERE!

He waves his arm and the dog comes running to his side.  He pulls the dog 
close to him, sheltering him from the gunfire.

                    NEVILLE
          Dumbest goddamm dog I ever had.

BLAM!  A bullet HITS the car.  Neville is pinned down.

                    NEVILLE
          Great, Bob, just great.

He looks at the pistol in his hand.  It's useless against a rifle.  And 
unfortunately, the machine gun is in the Land Rover.  He can't make a move.  
Unless...

Along the curb, hidden from the sniper's view, is a storm drain.  Neville 
inches his way toward it and slithers inside.  The dog tries to follow, but 
Neville motions for him to stay and speak.  The dog understands and BARKS at 
the sniper.


INT.  STORM DRAIN TUNNEL - DAY

Crouching down, Neville is able to scurry to the other side of the street.  
He inches his way through a crevice.


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Neville crawls into a dilapidated BATHROOM in the store's first basement.  
The plumbing  has been backed up for god knows how long and Neville can 
barely tolerate the stench.


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - FIRST BASEMENT - DAY

What used to be "Housewares." Neville spies the no-longer-functioning 
escalators and strides upwards.


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - ESCALATORS - VARIOUS - DAY

Neville reaches the fourth floor.  We catch glimpses of BIZARRE GRAFFITI, but 
mostly we're taken aback by the sheer emptiness of the store.


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - SEVENTH FLOOR - DAY

Neville creeps up the escalator.  He HEARS the sniper, but it's difficult to 
see anything because the windows in this section have been covered with 
sheets of cardboard, blankets, and plywood.  The only light is a tiny shaft 
coming through the cracked pane the shooter is using for his rifle.

The shooter himself is bundled in rags.  Gloves cover his hands, a parka hood 
hides his head, and a scarf shields his face.  We see no details, only a 
shape. in a corner is a sort of "tent' made from bedsheets and blankets.

The sniper watches the street.  Faintly, we HEAR the dog BARKING.  The sniper 
SHOOTS.  A distant ping!--the bullet hits the abandoned car.  Neville gauges 
his surroundings, his enemy.  Thinks.  Positions himself about twenty feet 
behind the sniper.  Locks target with the .45.

                    NEVILLE
          Hey.

The sniper jumps, turns around, and shakes in his shoes at the sight of 
Neville.  He fumbles with the rifle.

                    NEVILLE
          Ah-ah-ah.

The sniper stops.  It's no use--he'd never be quick enough.

                    NEVILLE
          Slide the gun over here.

The sniper has no choice.  He sets the rifle on the floor and shoves it at 
Neville, who quickly examines it.

                    NEVILLE
          A hunter's gun.  Where'd you find it?

No reply.  Neville points the .45, SHOOTS and blasts the window behind the 
shooter.  Glass explodes and SUNLIGHT pours into the room.  The sniper 
SCREAMS with fright and scurries for darkness.  Neville aims his pistol at 
another window.

                    NEVILLE
               (a threat)
          Where?

                    SNIPER
               (his voice a raspy hiss)
          Up north.  In the mountains, a cabin.

                    NEVILLE
          You're not part of Cortman's bunch.

                    SNIPER
          Who?

                    NEVILLE
          Never mind.  In the mountains... 
          Were there people?  Like me?

                    SNIPER
          If there were, we wouldn't have had to 
          come to the city, now, would we?

                    NEVILLE
          You're a smart one.

                    SNIPER
          Thank you.

                    NEVILLE
          You said "we."

The sniper realizes his error.  Goes tight-lipped.

                    NEVILLE
          How many?

No answer.  Neville flips back the top of the "tent" and sees three sleeping 
areas.

                    NEVILLE
          Where are they?

The sniper refuses to respond.  Neville BLASTS another window.  More LIGHT.  
Like a snake escaping a predator, the sniper slithers away, but Neville 
pounces on him and jams the .45 into the center of his back.  He pins one arm 
and extends the shooter's other arm into the path of the light.

                    SNIPER
          No!

The sniper is in agony.

                    NEVILLE
          Tell me.

Frustrated, Neville, pulls off the man's glove.  First, we see that the flesh 
is pale white.  So pale it's almost translucent.  Second, we see the effect 
of sunlight--the skin blisters and blackens.

                    NEVILLE
          WHERE ARE THEY?

The sniper SCREAMS.  Neville releases him and he hides in the shadows, 
caressing his tortured limb.  The sniper decides to pull off his hood and 
remove the scarf, revealing...

A demonic visage.  Ghostly white flesh so devoid of pigment we can see the 
blue and purple veins beneath the surface.  His eyes are an unearthly cold 
blue/grey and white.  He is completely hairless--nothing on his pate, no 
brows, no facial hair.  His lips a deep ruby red.  This thing was once human, 
but now, now...

                    SNIPER
               (somewhat awed)
          You're him, aren't you?  You're Neville.

Neville reaches into his belt and takes out a VIAL of blood.  The sniper's 
eyes light up.

                    NEVILLE
          Where are they?

The sniper is mesmerized by the blood.

                    SNIPER
               (can't help himself)
          The bay...        The basement.

                    NEVILLE
          I was in the basement.

                    SNIPER
          Down...   below...   By the...   subway.

                    NEVILLE
          Do they have guns?

He won't answer.  Neville pours a few drops of blood and steps back.  
Thirstily, the sniper laps it up with his tongue, like a cat to some spilled 
cream.  Neville looks away.  The sniper falls back onto a pile of rags and 
lets his "fix" kick in.  His body spasms and his face contorts.  The sniper's 
arm jerks and he lets out a satisfied breath.  A junkie feeling the high.

                    SNIPER
          We heard about you.  Way up in the hills
          we heard about you.


Miraculously, the sniper's charred hand begins to heal.

                    NEVILLE
          Your friends.  Guns?

                    SNIPER
          No.  We found only the rifle.

His hand forms a fist.  A sinister, unearthly hiss emerges from his gullet.  
He looks at the vial in Neville's hand.

                    SNIPER
          More.

                    NEVILLE
          You'll get more if you tell me the truth.

                    SNIPER
          More!

And something dark, something terrible fills the sniper's eyes.  He LUNGES at 
Neville.  BLAM!  BLAM!  BLAM!  Neville pounds him with three bullets.  Two in 
the stomach.  One in the shoulder.  Blood spatters.  The sniper teeters, but 
does not fall.  Neville aims at the heart and fires, but his weapon is empty.  
He mutters "shit," hastily loads a clip.  The sniper clutches at his wounds, 
kneels and touches the floor with his finger.  He takes a deep breath and 
enters into some kind of meditative trance.  He summons...

The scattered drops of his blood heed his call.  Like droplets of mercury 
drawn to a common source, the blood moves across the floor and flows up his 
finger into the open bullet wounds.  And heals them.

                    NEVILLE
          That was clever, the mannequin.  That
          took some thought.  You nearly had me.

Click.  Neville jams in the clip.  The sniper moves.  POW.  POW.  POW.  POW- 
Only this time, Neville aims at the windows.  GLASS SHATTERS and a wall of 
LIGHT pours in, hitting the sniper like a freight train.

                    SNIPER
          NOOOOOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!!

The skin on the sniper's face blisters.  Smoke rises from beneath his 
protective clothes. he HOWLS.  Neville, with intense calm, holsters his .45 
and raises the RIFLE.

                    NEVILLE
          You know, I can understand me. But why 
          shoot at the dog?  What did that dog ever do 
          to you?

The sniper staggers toward Neville, one last attack.  Neville SHOOTS, hits 
the sniper square in the chest.  The force of the blast propels him backward, 
to the open windows.  The sniper slips on the broken glass and falls...

... out the window.  Seven stories to the street below.

Neville moves to the window, locks at the sniper's body on the concrete.  The 
DOG emerges from behind the abandoned car, sniffs in the direction of the 
corpse, and looks up at Neville in the window.  Neville shouts down...

                    NEVILLE
          STAY AWAY FROM HIM!  You stay away!

The dog sits.

                    NEVILLE
          Good boy.


EXT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

A bandana acting as a mask on his face, Neville pulls a spare gas can from 
the rear of the Land Rover and douses the sniper's corpse (blackening in the 
sun) with fuel.  He ignites a book of matches, tosses them at the body, and 
whoosh--instant funeral pyre.

Neville reaches into a supply chest in the rear of the Land Rover.  He pulls 
out a mean looking, more powerful MACHINE GUN, two ammo clips, a portable 
high-intensity halogen lamp, a COMBAT KNIFE, three small electronic devices, 
and a customized remote control.  He hangs a pair of night-vision goggles 
around his neck and instructs the dog...

                    NEVILLE
          Come.


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - SUB-BASEMENT - DAY

Neville walks past rusting generators to a collapsed wall which connects the 
store to an old subway tunnel.  The FLASHLIGHT on the barrel of the machine 
gun illuminates the path.  The halogen lamp is strapped to his shoulder, but 
for now, it's switched off.  Neville allows the dog to sniff a rag taken from 
the sniper's 'tent.' Having the scent, the dog proceeds into the tunnel. 
Prior to following, Neville fixes one of the SMALL ELECTRONIC DEVICES to the 
to the wall.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - DAY

A dank, dark, creepy place.  No more electricity to feed the lights or 
tracks.  Neville paces himself behind the dog, flashlight illuminating old 
cigarette ads, a 49ERS billboard, a pile of cat and rat skeletons, the rails, 
more GRAFFITI.

Which we now see more clearly.  This isn't the creation of homeboy 
gangbangers. it is fierce and savage in its beauty.  Wild symbols, patterns, 
and colors.  Majestic.  Tribal.  Neville has seen it many times before and 
doesn't like it.  It spells trouble.  He stops and attaches another 
electronic device to an overhead pipe.

The dog stops and utters a soft bark in the direction of a wrecked SUBWAY CAR 
spilled on the tracks ahead.  Neville shuts off the flashlight and dons the 
night-vision goggles.  He raises his finger to his lips and the dog knows to 
proceed quietly.  Neville attaches the final electronic device to the door 
leading to the car and silently enters.


INT.  SUBWAY CAR - DAY

THROUGH THE GREENISH TINT OF THE GOGGLES, we scan the interior.  Ripped 
seats, trash, and in one corner, a HUMAN FORM.  An EMACIATED CORPSE.  
Stripped naked, every ounce of blood drained.  A festering bullet wound in 
the chest, the skin punctured by teeth marks. on its chest, an elaborate 
TRIBAL DESIGN, much like the graffiti, somehow raised from the skin, similar 
to a cattle brand.

Neville checks out the opposite end.  Sleeping there are TWO FORMS.  
Breathing.  He removes the goggles and motions for the dog to move back.  He 
readies his weapon with one hand, and reaches back with the other, 
igniting...

THE HALOGEN LAMP.  Instantly, BRIGHT WHITE LIGHT floods the compartment.  The 
two figures stir awake and SCREECH.

                    NEVILLE
          DON'T MOVE.

But they do not listen.  Instead, they REACH into their bedding, pull out TWO 
HANDGUNS and FIRE.

Not what Neville expected.  As bullets whiz past, he unleashes the machine 
gun, firing a spray across the car.  One of the sleepers' bullets takes out 
the halogen.  It shatters, burning Neville's cheek.  More gunfire.  Is he 
hit?

Neville falls back.  A firefight in close quarters is not what he wants.  He 
maneuvers back into the tunnel.  Takes cover behind a pile of rubble and 
finds the dog already there.

                    NEVILLE
          Never believe them, Robert, never.

BLAM!  BLAM,!  Bullets explode in the wall near his head.  He sneaks a peek 
and sees the two sleepers firing at him from inside the train.  Neville 
reaches into his belt and pulls out the customized REMOTE.  He presses one of 
the buttons and KABLAM!  The car is rocked with a small EXPLOSION.  The door 
is torn from its mooring and one of the sleepers is RIPPED APART- The wounded 
sleeper HOWLS with pain and falls to the
tunnel floor, barely able to keep his body from splitting in half.  
Amazingly, he's still alive.

BLAM!  The other one's still shooting.  Neville takes cover.  The second 
sleeper exits the car and tends to its wounded comrade.  Both are the same 
type of creature as the sniper, but this one, the living one, is FEMALE.  Her 
dying partner, a MALE, is finished.  She caresses his face, then buries her 
mouth in an open wound, infusing herself.  Dark blood covers her chin and 
chest, but as she walks, the liquid crawls across her skin into her mouth.  
It seems to give mass and power to her body and rich color to her translucent 
skin.

She raises her gun.  Neville ducks just as she FIRES.  BEEP BEEP BEEP.  His 
electronic stopwatch sounds an ALARM.  He switches it off and looks at the 
sunlight pouring into the tunnel.  Its quality slowly starting to shift.

MOVEMENT. Both Neville and the female react to SOUNDS behind them, past the 
wrecked subway car.  Neville knows what's coming.  Far in the distance, we 
see MORE FORMS.  What could be an army.  He and the dog RACE to the crumbled 
wall of the department store.  The female SCREECHES and gives chase.  She's 
very fast, like a panther.  Neville glances up, runs, presses the REMOTE...

The second DEVICE EXPLODES, collapsing the roof of the tunnel.  Pipes, 
concrete, dirt--it all cascades down.  A SHAFT OF LIGHT be in from the street 
above, stopping the female dead in her tracks.  The light separates her from 
Neville and she does not like it.  Frustrated, she snarls...


INT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - SUB BASEMENT - DAY

Neville helps the dog through the hole and heads for the
escalator. Presses the REMOTE.  The third device EXPLODES,
sealing shut the connection from the store to the tunnel.


EXT.  DEPARTMENT STORE - DAY

Neville and the dog hurriedly enter the Land Rover, haphazardly tossing 
supplies and weapons into the rear.  Neville starts the vehicle and checks 
the sky.  Must be about an hour before sunset.


EXT.  SAN FRANCISCO - DAY

The Land Rover zips down California Street and we PULL BACK, FAR BACK, 
revealing the scope and breadth of the city.

San Francisco has been raped, mutilated, and murdered.  Buildings burned, 
streets littered with rusting cars, trees and grass dry, dead.  No bombs were 
dropped--too , y of the structures are intact--instead, it feels as though 
something sinister and insidious rotted the place from the inside out.

Most startling is the GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE.  Barricades, barbed wire, EMPTY 
NATIONAL GUARD TANKS--all scattered about like a child's toys. it looks like 
a war zone.  The bridge itself is charred and torn, unstable, swaying in the 
wind.


EXT.  CHINATOWN - DAY

This area too -has been ravaged.  WIND kicks up LEAFLETS.  The
Land Rover speeds through, kicking up the old papers.  CLOSE
ON A LEAFLET as it sails to the ground.  It reads:

YOU ARE NOT ALONE. I AM A SURVIVOR JUST LIKE YOU. I WILL HELP. YOU                     CAN TRUST ME.  THERE IS HOPE.

                    MY NAME IS ROBERT.

MEET ME IN GOLDEN GATE PARK.  PORTALS OF THE PAST.  12 NOON.
MIDDAY.  EVERY DAY.  WHEN THE SUN IS HIGHEST IN THE SKY.

                         PLEASE.

The leaflet is yellowed and dirty.  These things have been floating around 
for a long time.


EXT.  HILL DISTRICT- DAY

Land that once held the beautiful homes of Pacific Heights, Nob Hill, and 
Russian Hill now looks like terrain in Bosnia. or the surface of the moon.  
Atop one of the hills still stands one edifice--Neville's house.  The Land 
Rover climbs.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DAY

Neville presses a remote garage door opener.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

The vehicle slows outside a massive GATE fashioned out of wrought iron, 
corrugated steel, and barbed wire.  It WHEELS open, allows entry, then CLANGS 
shut once the Rover's inside.

PULL BACK TO REVEAL THE REST OF THE HOUSE

A turn-of-the-century house.  The kind you can't find in other cities.  From 
a distance, it almost locks "normal." But normal it is not.  Every window and 
door has been bricked and cemented shut.  Small SLITS have been cut into the 
walls at strategic points to provide some vantage.  These portals are covered 
with chicken wire and are outlined by sharp NAILS pointing outward at jagged 
angles.

The exterior walls are covered with a hodgepodge of metal plating--steel 
sheets, corrugated iron.  The gables bounded by coils of barbed wire.  High-
intensity LAMPS (now shut off) and SECURITY CAMERAS jut out at odd angles, 
pointing at every corner of the surrounding landscape.

And what a terrifying landscape it is.  In the immediate vicinity, every 
other house--to the north, south, east, and west--has been burned and razed 
to provide Neville with an unobstructed view, and to prevent his enemies from 
using other structures as bases of attack.

Outlining the perimeter of Neville's house are TWO FENCES.  The interior 
fence, only fifty feet from the house itself, is seven feet high and 
constructed of wooden beams and ribbons of BARBED WIRE, crisscrossed and 
interlaced.  From within the house, once could see through, but no one could 
get past.

The outer fence, much higher and foreboding, forms an impenetrable square. It 
is composed of railroad ties, Telephone poles, metal sheets, iron staffs, 
barbed wired, and massive amounts of RAZOR WIRE. outside and in, it is 
bordered by row upon row of SHARP WOODEN PIKES, pointed out.

Between the two fences, within the compound, is a three foot deep DITCH, 
filled with muddy water.  A crude moat.  Its circle broken only by a thin 
LAND BRIDGE, over which now comes the Land Rover.  We an ELECTRONIC WHIRRING 
and a STEEL DOOR, level with the ground, SLIDES BACK, revealing the slanted 
driveway into the UNDERGROUND GARAGE.


INT.  UNDERGROUND GARAGE - DAY

Neville and the dog climb from the stopped Rover.  He looks up the ramp and 
sees the sun begin its descent.  He hits a button and the upper door slides 
CLOSED.  He winces with pain as he pulls off the shattered halogen.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT

He BOLTS AND LOCKS the door to the garage, ignites THREE BIG
GENERATORS, opens a fuse box, and flips the circuit breakers.
Artificial light flickers on throughout the house.

The basement acts as a workshop, tool room, and repair facility.  All manner 
of hardware is in stock as are various chemicals, electronics, and 
instruction manuals.  At the opposite end of the room is a WEAPONS ARSENAL 
and TARGET RANGE.  Neville deposits the busted lamp on a workbench and checks 
the rifle taken from the sniper.

                    NEVILLE
          Sight's for shit.

He dumps it on the workbench and selects a gorgeous MARKSMAN'S RIFLE from his 
well-stocked arsenal.

                    NEVILLE
          Now, if you had this, I might not be here
          right now. (sardonically) Too bad.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DUSK

Neville peels off the bodysuit.  We see that his shirt is ripped above the 
sleeve and a shoulder badly BRUISED.  He examines the vest and finds a BULLET 
flattened into the fabric.  He pries it out and hangs the suit in his closet.  
He slips into some loose fitting black pants, black t-shirt, and sneakers.  
Clothes for mobility, agility.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DUSK

Neville looks at a shelf of VIDEOTAPES: NBC NIGHTLY NEWS/JUNE 5, 1992, NBC 
NIGHTLY NEWS/AUGUST 5, 1997, ABC NIGHTLINE/ DECEMBER 12, 1995, CBS EVENING 
NEWS/OCTOBER 27, 1994.

He pops one into a vcr and Dan Rather reports on the day's events.  A long 
ago yesterday's events.  Neville slides a CD into a player.  Gorecki's 
Miserere.  Like this morning, a wall of sound.  Comforting.  "Normal."


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Neville digs into a freezer and pulls out two frozen STEAKS from a dwindling 
supply of meat.

                    NEVILLE
          It's my birthday.  Why not?


INT. NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - EARLY EVENING

A rather sad figure, Neville sits at a lonely little table eating his steak. 
Next to it, a lumpy
muffin with a thick candle stuck in its heart. A pathetic "birthday cake."
Uneaten.  On the floor, the dog devours his steak--raw.  Neville's disturbed 
by the bloodiness of the meat and can't watch the red juice drip from the 
dog's mouth.
Nearby, past a TV playing the news video, is a wall of CLOSED-CIRCUIT 
MONITORS showing grainy black-and-white images of the area surrounding the 
house.  There's MOVEMENT on a few of the screens and Neville attunes to it 
instantly.

                    NEVILLE
          They're early.

He snaps into action.  Moves to a LARGE COMPUTER SET-UP near the security 
video console, takes a seat, and calls up a PROGRAM detailing the various 
ELECTRONIC CONTROLS connected to the compound.  Hits the keyboard...


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - EARLY EVENING

LIGHTS.  Dozens of bulbs along the outer fence ignite. others atop the roof 
SPRAY LIGHT onto the compound.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DINING AREA - EARLY EVENING

Neville grabs the muffin off the table, blows out the candle, and tosses it 
to the dog.

                    NEVILLE
          Happy birthday.

The dog sniffs and doesn't find the prospect too appealing.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT ARSENAL - NIGHT

Neville checks and loads a series of WEAPONS.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - VARIOUS - NIGHT

He places GUNS around the house and heads UPSTAIRS.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

A HATCH opens onto a PROTECTED DECK--A makeshift "crow's nest." It screws 
with the aesthetics of the old home's architecture, but it serves a purpose, 
providing Neville with a high, secure vantage point.  He rests his marksman's 
rifle in a crook, climbs up a small "lookout post," and raises a pair of 
NIGHT VISION BINOCULARS to his eyes...

IN THE DISTANCE, through the foggy green light of the glasses, we see FORMS 
beyond
the outside fence.  Right now, there are a dozen, perhaps twenty.  However, 
to the left, to the
right, MORE, many more, are journeying up the hill, toward the house.  Hiding 
in the
shadows creeping behind rubble, crawling through trenches.

ON THE ROOF, Neville slides down the pole, into the house.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville opens a DOOR, revealing a small room within--a converted closet.  He 
moves INSIDE and we see its walls are lined with numerous HOLY TEXTS and 
FIGURES OF WORSHIP--
A crucifix, the Buddha, a Celtic cross, rosary beeds, Hindu gods, a menorah, 
Norse rune stones, you name it.

Neville lights a candle and incense, silently prays.  The dog rests outside 
the door.  He becomes ALERT, hearing the SOUND before his master.  AN EERIE 
MOAN.  Low, resonant.  A C Far in the distance.  Beyond the walls, beyond the 
fence.  The MOANING INTENSIFIES.  The dog whimpers.

                    NEVILLE
          I know.

The moaning subsides. It is replaced by a DEEP, RHYTHMIC DRUMMING.  There is 
something powerful and dangerous to the beat.  And it affects Neville.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville plays a CD.  CRANKS UP THE VOLUME.  The music is loud, angry and 
disturbing.  Krzystof Penderecki.  Neville moves to the computer station, 
presses a co


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

MUSIC BLARES from SPEAKERS mounted on the roof.  Outside the fence, the 
DRUMMING INTENSIFIES.  Combined with Neville's music, an odd, discordant 
symphony is created.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville sits on the floor, hands covering his ears.  The dog whimpers his 
concern.  Finally, Neville SCREAMS...

                    NEVILLE 
          STOP!

He SHUTS OFF the music.  Outside, the drumming continues.  Neville GRABS the 
dog by the collar and JERKS him to a small HATCH cut into the KITCHEN DOOR.  
He slides back a bolt and PUSHES the dog outside.  The dog looks back at 
Neville with sad, frightened eyes.  Neville angrily instructs...

                    NEVILLE
          IT'S YOUR JOB.  GO.

He slides the hatch back in place, locking the dog outside.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The dog begins his patrol of the inner perimeter. it is his job to alert 
Neville to anyone who makes it this far. out here, the DRUMMING is much 
louder.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

Neville emerges from the hatchway, grabs the marksman's RIFLE, adjusts the 
sight with the screwdriver tip of the all-in-one-tool, and positions himself 
in the crow's nest.  He arms the weapon and raises the INFRA-RED SCOPE to his 
eye.

                    NEVILLE
          All right, Cortman.  I'm ready.


EXT.  BARREN LANDSCAPE - NIGHT

We shift our point-of-view to the area far beyond the outer fence, to the 
source of the drumming.  And what we see should be terrifying...

AN ARMY.  A horde of awesome, frightening creatures.

Close to three hundred in number.  Male and female.  All have the pale, 
translucent skin of the creatures Neville encountered in the department store 
and subway, the same lack of hair, the same disturbingly blue grey/white 
eyes.  But this group, this tribe, has something different about it.  
Something strong.  Something imperious.  Something savage.

They wear very little clothing an their magnificently shaped bodies.  Most of 
the men and many of the women are topless, proud of their muscular torsos and 
ghostly flesh.

Unique TRIBAL MARKINGS AND JEWELRY adorn their bodies.  However, all, each 
and every one of them, bear one identical mark an their chests.  The "brand" 
Neville saw an the drained corpse in the subway car. It is their mark.

There is a hierarchy to the assembled:

Lowest are CARETAKERS, who nurse and tend to the wounded.  Above them are the 
DRUMMERS. They intone frightening chants and beat out powerful rhythms an 
large decorated drums.  Next are the CLERICS--A somber, serious bunch whose 
markings are very ornate, very significant, very "holy."

The greatest in number are the WARRIORS.  The strongest, the fiercest, the 
most savage-appearing.  Hate fills their eyes.  Hate fuels them.  A pure hate 
for one man--Neville.

Very near the top are two LIEUTENANTS, one leader of the Clerics, the other 
leader of the Warriors.  The Cleric Lieutenant is CHRISTOPHER.  An intense, 
almost sensitive looking fellow whose body is the most decorated, the most 
artistic in its impression.  The Warrior Lieutenant is EVA.  A fantastically 
strong, vicious woman whose body bears the SCARS of warfare.  She possesses a 
manic, ferocious energy.

And the LEADER.  The leader is CORTMAN.

He exudes the confidence and power of a king.  His body is chiseled, his 
visage haunting.  He commands this group with the calm of a head of state, 
the drive and focus of a field marshall, and the brute force of a tribal 
warlord.

He stands an a promontory, a big jagged hunk of concrete jutting from the 
earth's surface.  It provides protection and perspective--beyond the range of 
Neville's guns, but close enough to observe his activity.  There is constant 
movement in the ranks, but all await and heed the word of Cortman.

( *NOTE--Although these creatures consume blood, are allergic to light, and 
bear other similarities to vampires, they are not.  They are something new, 
something we have never seen before, something strikingly different.  There 
is nothing but their existence or behavior that is based in the occult or 
supernatural.  They are real.  And we will learn how and why soon enough.  
For the purposes of this screenplay, we will call these creatures Hemocytes. 
)

Cortman RAISES HIS ARM and the drummers cease.

                    CORTMAN
          Bring her to me.

TWO WARRIORS shove forward the FEMALE Hemocyte Neville encountered in the 
subway.  Eva forces her to "bow", in submission.  Cortman gently strokes the 
female's cheek.

                    CORTMAN
          You wish to join us.

She nods in the direction of Neville's house.

                    FEMALE
          He killed my love.

                    CORTMAN
          Neville has slaughtered so many we loved. 
          You want to see him dead?  See him punished 
          for this injustice?

                    FEMALE 
          Yes!

                    CORTMAN
          You want to feed on him.

                    FEMALE
          Yes!

                    CORTMAN
          Why should we grant you that privilege?

                    FEMALE
          Why?

She reaches into the small of her back and pulls forth the PISTOL she used 
against Neville.

                    FEMALE
          I'll give you this.

Cortman and others LAUGH.  He takes it, examines it.

                    CORTMAN
          I haven't played with toys since I was a
          child.  What about you, Eva?

He tosses it to her.  She looks at it with disdain.

                    CORTMAN
          Do you really think I need these relics of the past?  
          I have every weapon I need. My body. my mind.  
          My soul. (re the gun) Such toys are pointless. (MORE)

                    CORTMAN (cont'd)
          Neville. He needs them.  Take them away,
          and he is naked.

To prove a point, Cortman nods to Eva and she SHOOTS him twice in the 
stomach.  He LAUGHS and we watch his body heal itself, blood refusing to 
flow, flesh sealing the holes.  Eva THROWS the gun into the night.

                    CORTMAN
          Remind her of what she has done.

Christopher turns to his clerics and they bring forth the DRAINED CORPSE the 
female and her "Love" fed upon in the subway car.  There is real anger in the 
eyes of the Clerics.

                    CORTMAN
          You recognize him?

The female realizes she is in trouble.  Cortman shows her the DISTINCTIVE 
BRAND on the chest.  Cortman touches his own brand.  Others in the tribe 
touch theirs.

                    CORTMAN
          It is our mark. It distinguishes us and unites us.  
          Without it, we mean nothing. Without it:, we are 
          no better than you. And you disgust me.

                    FEMALE
          Please...

                    CORTMAN
          "Please." (re the corpse) Did he beg?
          whimper and plea?  If so, what: was your 
          response?  How did you react?  With 
          understanding?  Compassion?  
          Or with hunger?  And brutality?

Cortman extends his arm.  He CONCENTRATES and the muscles and tendons of the 
forearm thicken.  Elegantly, his NAILS GROW, creeping forth from the flesh, 
forming RAZOR-LIKE TALONS.

                    CORTMAN
          Life is eternal.

He SLASHES her throat.  SLASHES her chest once, twice.  Her body spasms and 
twitches at the massive blood loss, but there's clearly still life in her 
eyes.  Her FLESH tries to heal itself, to heal the wounds.  Cortman looks to 
Eva.

                    CORTMAN
          Who goes forth tonight?

She motions toward TEN HEMOCYTE WARRIORS, their faces and bodies painted 
differently than the others.

                    CORTMAN
          Feast on her.  Let the blood give you strength.  
          Your brother's spirit will live within you.  Go.  Drink.

The ten move on the female like vultures to carrion.  She SCREAMS and within 
moments, she is drained.  The other Hemocytes link hands and surround the 
warriors.  Cortman approaches the body of the female, a last glimmer of life 
in her eyes.  He whispers...

                    CORTMAN
          This is not a punishment.  It is a gift.

His talons puncture her heart.  The talons RECEDE and her blood forms a pool 
in the "cup' of Cortman's hand.

                    CORTMAN
          You have been chosen on this night of 
          glorious darkness to do battle with an 
          anachronism. our nemesis.  Say his name.

Together, the warriors chant, "Neville."

                    CORTMAN
          Allow the blood to flow through you, allow 
          its power to strengthen your limbs, 
          your flesh, your soul.  Feel its beauty. 
          Feel its immense force.

Fueled by the fresh blood, the bodies of the ten men and women seem to grow 
in mass and muscle.  Their skin thickens, forming a kind of flesh armor.  
They open their eyes and they are red with ferocity, Cortman raises his own 
hand to his mouth, drinks, and kisses each warrior on the mouth.

                    CORTMAN
          Feel the power.

He repeats this down the line, and when finished, the warriors are 
frighteningly pumped up, their bodies and spirits now adrenalized with 
terrible dark energy.

Everyone chants, "Ne-ville". Again and again - "Ne-ville".  Cortman signals 
the DRUMMERS who begin an accelerated beat, an accompaniment to combat.  Like 
magnificent predatory beasts, the TEN WARRIORS MOVE across the barren 
landscape and gather at the OUTSIDE FENCE.  Cortman stands atop the 
promontory and points at the house.

                    CORTMAN
          DESTROY THE DEVIL!

The warriors SCREAM.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

A dark intensity in his eyes, Neville watches the perimeter.  The HOWLING and 
DRUMMING of the Hemocytes echoes through the night sky.  He does his best to 
block it out. Block it out.

IN THE DISTANCE, LONG POLES are RAISED against the outer fence.  The TEN 
climb, reaching the razor-wired crest.

Neville looks through his INFRA-RED SIGHT, finds the CHEST of one warrior and 
FIRES three rounds--two find the heart.  The warrior drops.  NEVILLE SEARCHES 
for another target.

ATOP THE FENCE, the warriors struggle to avoid lacerating themselves with the 
razor wire.  THREE STRONG HEMOCYTES LEAP OVER THE WIRE and land in the 
compound, avoiding the row of PIKES before the moat.

ON THE ROOF, Neville switches on SUPER BRIGHT LIGHTS aimed at the outer 
fence. (We notice a considerable DIMMING of other lights in and around the 
house--these lamps draw power).

ATOP THE FENCE, SIX HEMOCYTES are BLINDED by the light.  One loses his 
footing and FALLS BACK onto the exterior PIKES, horribly impaled.  Another 
BADLY CUTS HIMSELF on the razor wire.  The blood loss is too great and the 
warrior nearest him--a BEAUTIFUL FEMALE--wills it to her, drawing the fuel 
into her mouth, into her system, and LEAPS into the compound.

IN THE CROW'S NEST, Neville removes the sight and uses the high-intensity 
lamps to seek out the THREE remaining Hemocytes on the fence.  He SHOOTS.  
HITS one square in the chest, dropping him.  SHOOTS.  Bullets tear into the 
flesh of another, but they're off-center and the WOUNDS HEAL.  This Hemocyte 
leaps, joining the others inside the compound.

The last of the three jumps down, but NEVILLE FIRES, catching her in mid-
flight, spinning her off-balance.  She tries to correct her fall, but lands 
on the INTERIOR PIKES.  Her body is SPEARED in three different places, but 
she's still alive.

ON THE ROOF, Neville SHUTS OFF the high-intensity lamps (returning power to 
the other utilities).  Inside the inner perimeter, the DOG BARKS, alerting 
Neville to the FIVE HEMOCYTES who made it into the compound.

                    NEVILLE
          I know, I know.

He climbs through the hatch into the house.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville propels himself down the spiral staircase and moves to the MONITORING 
STATION- On the closed-circuit screens, we can see FOGGY IMAGES of Cortman 
and his followers outside the compound, IMAGES of the FIVE HEMOCYTES just 
inside the compound, and THE DOG patrolling the inner perimeter.

He checks the COMPUTER and we see an ELECTRONIC GRAPHIC--an OVERVIEW LAYOUT 
of the compound.  Neville checks the VIDEO of the five within the compound, 
near the MOAT.

                    NEVILLE
          You like surprises?


EXT.  THE COMPOUND - NIGHT

The five Hemocytes gather around the warrior impaled on the inner pikes.  She 
struggles to pull herself off the sharp poles, but the blood continues to 
seep out of her.
WARRIOR ONE--A muscular male--gently leans in...

He kisses her.  The OTHERS congregate and drink her blood.  The Impaled 
Warrior dies.  Again, we see the bodies of the Hemocytes grow stronger.  They 
turn, hiss at Neville's house, hiss at the dog, move through the pikes, and 
toward THE MOAT.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville bounds upstairs, to a second story slit/window.  He PUNCHES out the 
protective chicken wire with his fist and reaches for something on a table...  
A FLARE GUN.

                    NEVILLE
          I like surprises.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

WARRIOR TWO AND WARRIOR THREE try to LEAP across the ditch, but don't make 
it.  They slide into the WATERY MUD.  WARRIOR ONE succeeds in jumping across.  
WARRIOR FOUR and the BEAUTIFUL FEMALE warrior approach the edge of the moat.  
Four is about to slide into the muck when Beautiful recognizes ODOR, INHALES 
DEEPLY and realizes something terrible.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT
Neville aims the flare pistol at the moat and FIRES.

                    NEVILLE
          Happy birthday, Bobby.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

The FLARE sails from the bedroom window into the moat. it takes only a split 
second for the Hemocytes to realize the ditch is filled with GASOLINE.  
Warrior One is blasted back by the ERUPTION OF FLAME.  Two and Three HOWL 
WITH DESPAIR as they are roasted alive.  FIRE SPIRALS into the black sky.  
The Beautiful Female PULLS Warrior Four to safety.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville watches as the flames SPREAD around the moat, forming a CIRCLE OF 
FIRE.  As the flames grow higher, the DRUMMING AND CHANTING of the Hemocytes 
abruptly ceases.

                    NEVILLE
          Get your attention, Cortman?


EXT.  SURROUNDING AREA - NIGHT

Cortman and his followers watch in horror.  EVA is furious.

                    EVA
          WE GO!  NOW!  ALL OF US!

                    CHRISTOPHER
          When we send more, it simply means more
          dead. Our dead.

                    EVA
          He can't kill us all!

                    CORTMAN
          He can.  He would.  Even if it meant
          killing himself in the bargain.

                    EVA
          COWARDS!  We're cowards!

Cortman GRABS her by the throat and LIFTS her into the air.

                    CORTMAN
          YOU CALL ME COWARD? 
          YOU QUESTION MY JUDGEMENT?

He HEAVES her away like a rag doll.  Eva lands hard.  Cortman intimidates the 
hell out of her --out of everyone.

                    CORTMAN
          WHO ELSE CHALLENGES ME?  
          WHO AMONG YOU?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM

Neville checks the screens, but SMOKE obscures the view.  He looks at the 
computer.  Moves his mouse to an area labeled MOTION DETECTORS / SENSORS and 
creates an ELECTRONIC "X" on the screen for each of the Hemocytes in the 
compound.  Neville presses a button and an OVERLAY GRID appears.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

WARRIOR ONE--through the flames licking the moat--encourages Warrior Four and 
the Beautiful Female to press on.  Warrior One looks to the inner fence.  
Beyond it is the DOG, BARKING fiercely.  When the warrior approaches, the dog 
RUNS.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville observes the COMPUTER as one of the "X"s steps onto a RED quadrant of 
the grid.  Neville PRESSES a button.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

We HEAR an ELECTRONIC "BEEP" before Warrior One steps on a REMOTE-CONTROLLED 
MINE.  The CONCUSSIVE BLAST propels him up and back, into the fiery ditch.  
Across the moat, Warrior Four and the Beautiful Female look on in horror.  
Frightened, Warrior Four slinks back in the direction of the outer fence.

                    WARRIOR FOUR
          We'll never get inside!

The Beautiful Female looks at him with disgust.  She notices the blast has 
torn a HOLE in the fence, creating easy access to the HOUSE ITSELF.  She 
turns to her cowardly comrade.

                    BEAUTIFUL FEMALE
          I have a better idea.

She extends her RAZOR SHARP TALONS...


INT. NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM. - NIGHT

Neville's eyes watch the monitors He can barely make out TWO HAZY FIGURES 
beyond the moat.  Suddenly, one drops from view.  He checks the computer 
screen.  The sensors only show the area between the outer fence and inner 
fence. (The area between the house and inner fence is unmonitored to allow 
for the dog's patrols.) There is still one "X" outside the moat.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

The Beautiful Female stands over the corpse of Warrior Four, his throat 
slashed, body pale and drained.  RICH CRIMSON drips from her lips and her 
body GROWS in strength and energy.  She sets her sights on the house.

In a MAGNIFICENT LEAP, she hurdles over the moat, through the flames, and 
LANDS on the other side.  The DOG GROWLS.  She HISSES and moves toward him, 
talons ready.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville reacts with surprise as the final "X" disappears from the screen.  He 
adjusts the grid, fiddles with the mouse, checks the video screens --nothing.  
OUTSIDE, the dog WILDLY, then MANICALLY SCRATCHES at the "dog door." Neville 
rushes to it, but can't open it--it's stuck.  The dog YELPS in fear.  Neville 
tries to force open the hatch, but it won't budge.  The dog BARKS a warning.  
Then SILENCE.

He rushes to the MONITORS, but can't see anything.  Just smoke and dead 
Hemocytes.  He frantically paces.  Then grabs a FLASHLIGHT and heads to the 
basement.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Near the garage entrance, Neville removes a STEEL PLATE from the wall, 
revealing a TUNNEL--about two feet high, three feet wide--leading from the 
house, below the compound.  He grabs two .45 AUTOMATICS from the Arsenal, 
tucks them in his belt and slithers into the tunnel, flashlight showing the 
way.


INT.  TUNNEL - NIGHT

Neville reaches a specific section of the crawlspace.  Directly above him is 
another HATCHWAY.  He undoes a bolt, slides it back, shuts off the flashlight 
and sits for a few moments in darkness, listening for movement above.  When 
he's satisfied with the level of quiet, he reaches for the hatch.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

The hatch, camouflaged by dirt and dry grass, FLIES UP from the ground.  In a 
flash, Neville SPRINGS UP, .45s at the ready.  Silhouetted against the 
gasoline flames in the moat, he surveys the area between the inner fence and 
the house...

Nothing.  He silently moves to the HOLE in the barbed wire, inspects it.  He 
follows FOOTPRINTS around the house, eyes moving side to side, behind, above.  
He rounds a corner ... MOVEMENT.  Raises his weapons.  And finds...

Nothing.  MOVEMENT.  He spins, ready to shoot... THE DOG. on the opposite 
side of the barbed wire fence, near the moat.  Neville scolds the dog.

                    NEVILLE
          What are you doing over there?

Neville points to the hole.

                    NEVILLE
          Get inside.

The dog heads for the hole, then stops.  He BARKS WILDLY.  Neville spins, but 
the warning comes too late.

THE BEAUTIFUL FEMALE Hemocyte stands a few feet away from him.  Completely 
nude.  Her talons are sheathed, the blood wiped clean from her mouth and 
chin.  Although her pallor is ghostly, there is no denying her body is 
comely, seductive, and magnificently shaped.  Proud and calm, she extends her 
hand toward Neville, as if welcoming him.

He raises one of the weapons and aims at her heart.  She pouts.  And takes a 
step toward him.  Neville's hand shakes.  His face sweats.  His finger cannot 
pull the trigger.  The dog senses his master's dilemma and RUNS for the hole.

                    BEAUTIFUL FEMALE
          Please don't hurt me. I want to...

The Beautiful Female steps within inches of him.  Neville
hates himself for being unable to act.

                    BEAUTIFUL FEMALE
          ... touch you.

Her hands caress his face and she kisses his neck.  Her hands move down his 
body, along his arms, pull the guns from his fingers, and drop them to the 
ground.  She pulls Neville's hands to her breasts.

                    BEAUTIFUL FEMALE 
          Touch me.

As Neville becomes lost in her flesh, the Beautiful Female extends an arm.  
TALONS emerge from her fingers.  Her eyes glow with hate, with blood lust.

                    BEAUTIFUL FEMALE
          So easy.

As her razor-sharp fingers move to his throat, THE DOG TACKLES them both.  
Neville snaps out of his sexual reverie and PUSHES her away.  She LASHES OUT, 
SLASHING his forearm.  Neville scrambles for the guns.  The dog jumps at the 
Hemocyte, but she bats him away, knocking him unconscious.

Neville aims the .45s. FIRES.  Three-four-five-six shots from each gun.  
Protecting herself, the Beautiful Female turns SIDEWAYS and covers her chest 
with her arms.  The SKIN
THICKENS an command, forming a protective shield.  The bullets penetrate, but 
do not cause damage.

Neville drops the spent, smoking weapons to the ground.  The
Beautiful Female stands and "commands" her skin to return to "normal." She 
looks the helpless Neville up and down and laughs.  A superior, cruel laugh.  
She bares her teeth, hisses, and moves in for the kill.

Like lightning, Neville reaches into a boot sheath, pulls his COMBAT KNIFE, 
and drives it into his attacker's heart.  The Beautiful Female SCREECHES WITH 
SHOCK.  Neville TWISTS the blade.  She falls to her knees and tries to summon 
her body to heal, but the damage is too great, the loss of blood immense.  
She hisses and dies.

As life drains from her, her eyes become soft, almost human Neville is 
haunted by the transformation.  And cannot bear to watch.  A WHIMPER.  The 
dog is regaining consciousness.  Neville lifts him in his arms and heads for 
the tunnel.


EXT.  SURROUNDING AREA - NIGHT

Cortman kneels, deeply feeling.  He rises.  Stoic.  Majestically raises his 
arms...

                    CORTMAN
          Let them hear you.  Tell their souls we
          do not forget.

Christopher and his Clerics lead the tribe in a MOURNFUL
CHANT.  The DRUMMERS provide haunting accompaniment.  There is something 
disturbing, yet beautiful about the sound.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL FACILITY - NIGHT

Neville is shirtless, tending to the laceration on his forearm.  He 
disinfects, bandages, then looks to the DOG who lies on an exam table, 
stunned, but conscious.  Neville examines his pelt for cuts, checks his bones 
for breaks.

                    NEVILLE
          You okay?

The dog looks up at him with sad eyes, then licks his face.

                    NEVILLE
          You're okay.

The dog REACTS to the distant MOURNFUL SOUND generated by the Hemocytes.  
Neville too can't seem to deny its power.  He LIFTS the dog in his arms.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville huddles in a corner, cradling the dog in his arms, needing the 
contact with another living thing.  The MOURNFUL CHANTING INTENSIFIES.  And 
Neville fights back tears.  He desperately holds the dog, burying his face in 
his fur.

                                             FADE OUT.

                                             FADE IN:


EXT.  SURROUNDING AREA - DAWN

The Hemocytes are long gone.  The bodies of the warriors who never made it 
past the outer fence have been taken away.


EXT.  COMPOUND - DAWN

However, the bodies of the Hemocytes who died within the compound remain, 
smoldering in the early morning light.  The gasoline fire has died and black 
acrid smoke forms a fine mist over the compound.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - DAWN

Neville and the dog slumber in the corner.  An ALARM sounds from the upstairs 
bedroom and Neville BOLTS AWAKE, reaching for a gun that isn't there.  The 
dog springs away.  Body aching, Neville initiates his daily routine.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - VARIOUS - MORNING

CLASSICAL MUSIC--upbeat (Vivaldi?)--plays over the following.
Neville works out in the EXERCISE ROOM.  SHOWERS.  Applies a new bandage in 
the MEDICAL FACILITY.  He selects a VIDEO-another past episode of the "Today 
Show"--and a TAPE of "Morning Edition." The sounds of "normalcy." He removes 
STEEL SHUTTERS from the roof of the GREENHOUSE.  And picks fruits and 
vegetables for today's meals.  He stops near a section of FLOWERS, taken by 
their simple beauty.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

He surprises himself by further depleting his supply of meat and giving the 
dc>g another STEAK.  The dog, too, is shocked, but delighted.  Neville sits 
at the small table, barely touches his oatmeal and strawberries, and watches 
the dog.

                    NEVILLE
          You saved my ass last night, you son 
          of a bitch. (re the steak) 
          For what it's worth...  Enjoy.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Neville DRESSES.  He finds himself staring at the PHOTOGRAPH on his bedside 
table.  His wife and daughter.  Both beautiful.  Smiling.  Neville's eyes are 
cold.  Almost blank.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Neville addresses the VIDEO CAMERA.  His daily journal.

                    NEVILLE
          My name is Robert Neville.  I was born in 
          Des Moines, Iowa, October 17th, 1960.  
          My father was Bill, my mother Charlotte. 
          I had a daughter Grace.  My wife... Ellen.

He stops.  Continues...

                    NEVILLE
          Ten last night, there were ten.  Tonight, they 
          will mourn and there'll be no attack.  I'll have 
          "peace."  But tomorrow it'll start all over again.  
          Why doesn't he give up?  Why not, Cortman ?

Thinks.

                    NEVILLE
          Why don't you, Bob?  Why don't you?

He stares into the camera.


EXT.  COMPOUND - MORNING - LATER

The Land Rover waits near the inner fence.  The dog observes Neville's bleak 
task--the carting away of dead Hemocytes.  Three corpses lay piled on the 
roof of the vehicle and Neville drags two more out of the moat.  He wears 
gloves and a bandana covers his mouth and nose to block out the stench.

He tends to the sun-ravaged body of the Beautiful Female, but can't bear to 
look at her face.  LIFTS her in his arms.


EXT.  PRESIDIO - DAY

The Land Rover turns off California Street just below Highway 1, onto the 
grounds of the Presidio.  It looks as though, at one time, a small war was 
fought here.  Neville steers the vehicle onto what once was the Army Golf 
Course.  No links here.  Only DEEP PITS dug far, far into the earth.  An old 
sign reads: U.S. GOVERNMENT CENTER FOR DISEASE CONTROL EMERGENCY CREMATION 
CENTER.  The Land Rover stops.


EXT.  PRESIDIO - CREMATION PIT - DAY - MINUTES LATER

The dog stays inside the Rover, hating the smell of this place.  Neville 
lines the Hemocyte corpses along the edge of the pit, douses them with 
gasoline and pushes them over the side.  The Beautiful Female is the last to 
go.  He lights a MOLOTOV COCKTAIL and LOBS it into the pit.  A BURST OF FLAME 
rises into the air.

CAMERA CRANES to reveal the expanse and awful nature of this place.  THREE 
DEEP CRATERS filled with the bones and ashes of human beings.  It is a 
disturbing, unforgettable image.

Neville takes something from, the Rover and walks to the edge of another pit.  
He kneels and we see a small bouquet of FLOWERS in his hand.  He whispers...

                    NEVILLE
          I love you, Gracie.


EXT.  PRESIDIO - DAY

The Land Rover exits, black smoke still rising from the pit.


EXT.  GOLDEN GATE PARK - PORTALS OF THE PAST - DAY

Neville sits, waits.  It is so silent, the air incredibly still.  No 
movement, no sound, nothing.  Neville can't bear it.  He erupts with 
frustration, SCREAMS at the sky.


EXT.  CEMETERY - OUTER GATES - DAY

The fences and gates of the cemetery look like Fort Knox.  More barbed wire 
and evidence of conflict.  SIGNS read: ENTRY FORBIDDEN!  ABSOLUTELY NO ENTRY 
PAST THIS POINT BY ORDER OF U.S. NATIONAL GUARD.  TRESPASSERS SHOT ON SIGHT.

The Land Rover waits outside a heavily fortified gate.  Neville carries a 
huge CIRCLE OF KEYS.  Uses one to open a padlock and chain.


EXT.  CEMETERY - DAY

Many graves have been dug up, many vaults ripped down.  Others carry 
BIOHAZARD warning labels. The Land Rover stops at a BEAUTIFUL TOMB guarded by 
statues of angels.  The door to its interior locked and chained.  Neville 
waits.  It's difficult for him, whatever he's about to do.


INT.  TOMB - DAY

The door cracks open and Neville uses all his weight to push it in.  LIGHT 
fills the crypt, illuminating dead flowers on a stone casket.  Followed by 
the dog, Neville enters, collects the old flowers and lays fresh ones in 
their place.  He kneels, shuts his eyes, and silently prays.

                    NEVILLE
          It was my birthday yesterday, Ellen.  
          Forty-two.  You wouldn't recognize me, 
          sweetie--I'm in better shape today than I 
          was when we got married. (thinks of something) 
          Gracie's birthday is next month, isn't it?  
          She would've been ten.  That's a big birthday 
          for a kid.

He can't continue.  Whispers...

                    NEVILLE
          I miss you, Ellen. I miss you so much.

                                             
     FLASHBACK TO:


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

A beautifully decorated, sun-filled room.  ELLEN NEVILLE, a pretty, gentle 
woman, lies in bed, half-awake. in his bathrobe, Neville reads the morning 
paper.

                    NEVILLE
          Did you hear about this guy?

                    ELLEN
          What guy?

                    NEVILLE
          Dr. John Krippen.  He's at the U.

                    ELLEN
          What about him?

                    NEVILLE
          This is really something.

                    ELLEN
          Would you tell me, already?

                    NEVILLE
          Wow.  In theory, this could cure AIDS.

                    ELLEN
          What are you talking about?

                    NEVILLE
          "Krippen's Viragene." (laughs) Sounds like 
          something you'd buy from an infomercial.

Neville reads to her from the article.

                    NEVILLE
          "A simple hemocyte..."

                    ELLEN
          What's a hemocyte?

                    NEVILLE
          A blood cell. (continues)  "... which has been 
          genetically altered and adhered to a virus." 
          (explains)  They started with lung cells a couple 
          years ago, but Krippen's working with blood
          --on leukemia. (reads)  "The altered cell--the
          viragene--is injected into the bloodstream where 
          it destroys all cancerous cells and, by utilizing 
          the properties of a virus, replaces them with 
          healthy cells."  It eats disease and makes you 
          healthy.  "Dr. Krippen states that, in theory, use 
          of viragenes could be applied to HIV, other 
          forms of cancer, damaged nerves, blindness
          --virtually any ailment."

                    ELLEN
          Let me get this straight.  Genetic engineering 
          and viruses?

                    NEVILLE
          The properties of a virus--I guess so it can 
          multiply and grow throughout the bloodstream.  
          But they disable it (MORE)

                    NEVILLE (cont'd)
          somehow, so it's not harmful.  This is
          amazing! And it's buried on page 12.

                    ELLEN
          It sounds dangerous, Bob.

                    NEVILLE
          Ellie...

                    ELLEN
          All these so-called scientific breakthroughs.  
          Playing with the building blocks of life.  
          As a race, do you think we can catch up?  
          I mean, we're back here, and they're twenty 
          miles down the road.

                    NEVILLE
               (significantly)
          It could cure cancer.  All forms of cancer.

                    ELLEN
               (sadly)
          Maybe there's supposed to be cancer.  
          Does anyone think about that?  What if 
          there's a reason?  What if...  All this goes 
          against God's plan?

                    NEVILLE
          I thought God's plan was simple.

She waits.

                    NEVILLE
          To love each other, Ellie.  To lend a 
          helping hand to someone in need, to care 
          for one another.  Compassion.

                    ELLEN
          Bobby, you're an idealist.  You always
          have been.

                    NEVILLE
          I have hope.  You can never lose hope.

                    GRACE'S VOICE
          Mommy?

Their daughter appears in the doorway.

                    ELLEN
          What is it, honey?

                    GRACE
          I don't feel good today.

                    ELLEN
          Oh, come here, sweetie...

Grace joins them in bed.  Ellen hugs her close.  Neville finishes the article 
in the paper and joins them

                    NEVILLE
               (whispers in Ellen's ear)
          I'm going to see him.  This Dr. Krippen.

                                             
     ABRUPT CUT TO:


INT.  TOMB - DAY

END FLASHBACK.

Neville stands.  Dispassionate, almost militaristic in his movements.  He 
collects the dead flowers and exits.


EXT.  CEMETERY - DAY

Neville locks the outer gate, climbs into the Land Rover and drives away, the 
SUN an hour or two away from setting.


INT.  EXT. NEVILLE'S HOUSE - VARIOUS - DAY / DUSK

Neville secures the house for the evening.  Fills generators with gasoline, 
checks power connections, repairs the hole in the inner fence, loads weapons, 
etc.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Neville barely touches his dinner as the dog devours its bowl of fresh chow.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

The sun's last rays shine through the window slits.  Neville washes dishes.  
The dog glances at the "doggie door" leading outside.  Neville tells him.

                    NEVILLE
          Not tonight.  You can stay in tonight.

The happy dog follows him to the video monitor/computer station.  Neville 
checks the screens--no activity yet.  He sits behind the computer and looks 
at a CHESS PROGRAM--a game already in play.  He analyzes the board, but is 
distracted.


INT. NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville goes through his archives of VIDEO TAPES.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville sits up in bed, the dog at the foot, on the floor, watching TV.  Guns 
in close proximity.  A videotape plays John Ford's THE LOST PATROL.  A small 
group of British soldiers cracking under the pressure of attack by a superior 
force of Arabs.

Neville's seen it many times.  He's seen all his favorites too many times.  
He gets bored with it, stops the tape, returns to the archives and moves to 
another.  He hesitates.  Wanting to play certain tapes, and desperately not 
wanting to play them.  He gives in, selects one, and moves to the vcr.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT - MOMENTS LATER

VIDEO IMAGES.  His wife ELLEN and daughter GRACE (5 years old here) washing 
the car in the back yard.  Both wear bathing suits and are having a terrific 
time with the water and soap suds.  Ellen turns the hose on the camera and we 
hear.

                    NEVILLE'S VOICE
          Hey!  This thing costs a lotta money!

The video camera ducks out of the way and we see Neville's bare feet.  
Typical home movie shenanigans.  He refocuses on his wife.  She looks quite 
lovely in her bikini.

                    ELLEN
          How come we're doing all the work?

                    GRACE
          Yeah, how come?  I think you should wash
          the car, daddy.

                    NEVILLE
          Uh-uh.  Mommy and I made a bet and she
          lost.

                    ELLEN
          You cheated!

REVEAL NEVILLE.  Sitting on the edge of his bed, haunted by the images.  
Haunted by his vibrant little girl, mesmerized by his wife's vitality, her 
beauty.

And then we HEAR...  MOURNFUL CHANTING. SLOW, RHYTHMIC DRUMMING- 
The ghostly cries...

                    VOICES OUTSIDE
          Neville...  Neville...

Neville shuts his eyes.  Covers his ears.  The dog goes to the balcony, 
demurely barks a reminder.  Neville looks out.  In the distance, in the 
darkness, the Hemocytes continue to MOURNFULLY WAIL.  Neville SLAMS SHUT the 
steel shutters.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville moves to an ALCOVE containing a HAM RADIO setup, dons HEADPHONES and 
juices up the system.  He SCANS and LISTENS.  Nothing.  The static and dead 
air, however, blocks out the cries of the Hemocytes.  Neville switches to the 
emergency frequency and leans into his microphone...

                    NEVILLE
          San Francisco KDX-CFY-CA 1971335.  
          San Francisco KDX-CFY-CA 1971335.

Listens.  He's done this far too many times.  Tried too many times.  But 
still, he listens.

                    NEVILLE
          San Fran--

He stops.  What was that?  He turns up the volume and now we HEAR it, too.  
Is it? 
 A human voice?  Unintelligible, staticy.  What did it say?  Was it "Help 
me?" Was it?!  He adjusts the scanner, cranks the volume.  It's gone.  Just 
like that, it's gone.  Was it even there?

                    NEVILLE
          Hello?  Please...

Static.  There was nothing. You're cracking up!  Neville rips the headphones 
from his ears, throws them.

                    NEVILLE
          There was nobody.  Nobody.

He looks at the monitors, the Hemocytes.  The CHANTING very loud now.  
Neville SCREAMS.

                    NEVILLE
          LEAVE ME ALONE!  FOR GOD'S SAKE.

Manically, he runs upstairs, grabbing a HANDGUN on the way.

EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

Neville indiscriminately FIRES the pistol.

                    NEVILLE
          LEAVE ME ALONE !

He futilely empties the clip.  The Hemocytes collectively HISS.  He THROWS 
the gun into the compound and falls to his knees.  He cradles his head in his 
hands.

                    NEVILLE
          Dear Jesus, why?  Please.  Why?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

He secures the hatch and collapses onto his bed.  The dog sadly approaches.  
Softening greatly, Neville lays his hand on the dog.  His eyes move to the 
photo of his wife.


EXT.  SURROUNDING AREA - NIGHT

The Hemocytes stand hand-in-hand in mournful vigil.

                    CORTMAN
          THE BLOOD IS ON YOUR HANDS, NEVILLE. 
          YOU ARE THE MURDERER..  TRY TO SLEEP 
          TONIGHT.  TRY.  REMEMBER THE FACES 
          OF THOSE YOU KILLED.  WE WILL NEVER 
          FORGET.   AND ONE DAY, YOU WILL PAY.  
          I PROMISE YOU THAT.  THERE WILL BE 
          RETRIBUTION.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 

Neville's haunted face stares at the ceiling.

                    CORTMAN'S VOICE
          RETRIBUTION, NEVILLE.

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NEXT MORNING

Neville drives the Land Rover out of the compound.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DAY

Eyes hidden behind dark sunglasses, a quiet, solemn Neville cruises the 
deserted city streets.


EXT.  CIVIC CENTER - DAY

City Hall is in ruins.  The Federal Building blown to bits.  The Library has 
suffered damage, but the structure is intact. Neville, loop of wire in hand, 
sets another SNARE on a lamp post and keeps a watchful eye on the surrounding 
buildings.
What was that?  Did something move?  Nothing.  Nothing, Bob.


EXT.  EMBARCADERO - DAY

The Land Rover stops near the Bay Bridge.  Neville looks
around. Cars are overturned, burned, rusting.  Boats in the
harbor are ravaged, sunken.


EXT.  EMBARCADERO - DAY - AN HOUR LATER

Neville has strung a series of five traps along the street.  He's working on 
his sixth when he realizes he won't have enough wire.  He returns to the Land 
Rover, pets the dog, and sets his machine gun on the roof of the vehicle.  He 
removes the Kevlar vest and his shirt.  It's hot today.  He drinks from a 
bottle of water, grabs a fresh spool of wire, and returns to the post.  He 
arranges and sets the wire and prepares to bait it when he STOPS.  Absolutely 
dead stops.

MOVEMENT. About half a block away.  He locates the source of the SOUND and 
sees something in one of the abandoned buildings.  Neville reaches for his 
machine gun.

But it's not there.  It's on the fucking roof of the Land Rover.  The dog is 
hyper-alert.  He heard it, too.  Keeping his eyes glued on the abandoned 
building, Neville moves toward the vehicle...

The dog BARKS a warning, but it's too late...

Neville has stepped into the snare of his own trap!

SNAP!  The wire WHIPS TAUGHT jerking Neville off his feet.  He SMACKS his 
head on the asphalt as the wire PULLS UP.  The snare LOCKS into place and 
Neville HANGS above the street, upside-down, his head about three feet from 
the surface.  The ALL-IN-ONE-TOOL FALLS from his pocket.  He REACHES for it, 
but it's already on the street.

The dog BARKS AND BARKS.  Panicked, afraid, scolding.  Neville is so pissed 
at himself.  The wire CUTS deep into his ankle.  BLOOD drips to the street.  
He's a little dazed, but Neville's desperately trying to maintain clarity.  
The dog circles below, barking and whimpering.  Neville breathes deeply, 
gauges his surroundings.  What to do?!  And then he realizes why the dog is 
so frantic.

The sun is setting.

As if on cue, his ELECTRONIC POCKET WATCH sounds its ALARM.  BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.  
The color drains from Neville's face.  BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.  Neville angrily 
THROWS the watch down the street.  The dog continues to BARK his warnings.

                    NEVILLE
          SHUT UP!  DON'T YOU THINK I KNOW?!!!

The dog backs off, circles the area, sniffs.  Whimpers and growls.  
Transforms into defensive posture.

SOUNDS OF MOVEMENT in a nearby building.  Neville hears it.  Looks at the 
sky.  About thirty, forty minutes before sunset.  Damn!  He calms himself.  
Can't panic, absolutely cannot panic.  He tries reaching for the wire, to 
pull himself up, but it's just beyond his reach, the strain too great.  He 
remembers his KNIFE in the ankle sheath.  Pulls it and HACKS at the wire.  No 
good.  It would never cut through.  He tucks the knife back into the sheath. 
Thinks.

CRASH!  Something falls and breaks in one of the shops.  More MOVEMENT. The 
dog REACTS, BARKS and RUNS to check it out.

                    NEVILLE
          NO!  STAY!

Neville can do nothing.  The dog's gone.  Must act quickly.  Although it 
makes the wire cut deeper into his ankle, Neville SWINGS back and forth, 
making his body a pendulum.  Reaches for the post.  Misses.  Swings back.  
Forth.  GRABS IT. Holds on for dear life.  In an impressive feat of strength 
and dexterity, he twists and PULLS himself up the post, to the overhang bar, 
and CRAWLS along it, even though the tension it creates on the wire is 
shredding his ankle.

Neville desperately tries to untangle the snare.  His fingers can't quite do 
the trick, so he pulls the KNIFE and uses it to SAW into the cable.

A HOWL from within a building.

Neville glances in the direction of the sound.  Just as the blade succeeds in 
slicing through enough of the wire, it weakens and SNAPS!  Releasing an 
unprepared Neville.  He FALLS and lands HARD on the asphalt.  A bone BREAKS 
in Neville's wrist but that's the least of his worries.

He landed on the knife.  It's sticking straight through the meat of his 
thigh.

He screams in pain!  Reaches for it, but that arm has a broken wrist--and 
that's agony!  He rolls to his side, feels for the handle with his good hand 
and psychs himself up for what must be done.  He PULLS the blade, SCREAMS, 
and passes out.
The image loses focus...  FADES...  To BLACK.  Silence.

FADE IN to grey.  Unfocused, gaining sharpness...  A SOUND.  A wet sound...  
The DOG LICKS Neville's face and pokes him, urging him to consciousness.  
When Neville awakens...

IT IS NIGHT.

The look of terror on his face is unmistakable.  The dog whimpers, prods him, 
begging him to move.  A small pool of blood has collected around Neville's 
thigh and ankle.  His broken wrist is swollen and he has a bad bump on his 
forehead.  He coughs, spits, raises his head...

The atmosphere of the Embarcadero has changed.  Gone is the deadness and 
silence--replaced by SOUNDS.  Some far off, some closeby.  Activity.  There 
is life.  Some kind of life.  The dog's defenses are way up.  He sniffs and 
growls.

The Land Rover is about fifty feet away.  Such a short distance, but now, for 
Neville, in this condition, it is more like fifty miles.  He examines his 
wrist, his ankle.  The blood has coagulated and he looks to the thigh.  He 
rips part of his shirt into a tourniquet.  It's difficult to work with the 
broken wrist, but he manages to stop the bleeding.  He tries to stand, but 
that is a joke.  The ankle is bad enough, but the thigh wound is just too 
deep--it can't take the pressure.  He falls back to the asphalt and catches 
his breath.  He finds the knife, clutches it in his fist--just in case--and 
begins to drag himself toward the Land Rover.

SOUNDS.  MOVEMENT.  All around him.  Something--footsteps?--circling the 
area.  Neville accelerates his pace.  The dog viciously growls, BARKS! And 
then Neville HEARS it, too. SNARLING.  HOWLS.  Not footsteps.  Paws on 
pavement.

Neville knows what's coming and it terrifies him.  Again, he tries to stand, 
but falls hard onto the street.  He drags himself toward the vehicle, and his 
dog begins to circle, BARKING, urging him to move faster.  Neville stops when 
he sees the first one...

A BLACK DOG.  A hemocvte dog.  Standing on top of a pile of rubble.  Watching 
him with icy grey eyes.  The beast's fangs are bared--long, sharp, vicious 
things. It assesses Neville and his dog.  It BARKS AND HOWLS.

Neville's about twenty feet from the Rover.  He remembers the MACHINE GUN on 
the roof and yells at his dog.

                    NEVILLE
          THE GUN!  GET THE GUN!

But this isn't "Rin-Tin-Tin." The poor thing has no idea what Neville means.

                    NEVILLE
          GET THE FUCKING GUN!

No use.  Neville presses on, dragging his wounded body toward the Land Rover.  
Holds tightly to the KNIFE when he sees...

FIVE MORE DOGS.  DANE, BROWN, BOXER, WHITE, and GREY.  All muscular, sharp-
fanged, and icy-eyed.  They snarl and sniff, calmly waiting, gauging their 
best attack...

The dog moves in close to Neville, guarding.  Neville fears the worst.  Hits 
the dog with his arm, instructing him...

                    NEVILLE
          GO! RUN!  Get the hell out of here!

The dog doesn't move.

                    NEVILLE
          GO! You stupid thing!  GO!

But the dog will not leave him.  And the attack begins.

Black BARKS and THREE RUSH IN.  Neville's dog meets BROWN, immediately 
engaging in combat.  Neville knows his dog is doomed, but can't think about 
that now.  The OTHER TWO are upon him!  He LASHES out with the KNIFE, ripping 
WHITE open along the ribcage.  The beast YELPS and retaliates and BITES into 
Neville's thigh.  Neville SCREAMS- And KNEES White with the opposite leg.  
GREY BITES into Neville's broken wrist.  The PAIN is unimaginable, but 
Neville STABS GREY in the chest.  AGAIN AND AGAIN.  Blood bursts from Grey's 
heart and the dog dies.  Neville spins to see WHITE in the air, POUNCING, 
eyes on Neville's jugular...

But the beast is broadsided by Neville's dog!  Battered and bleeding, he 
FIGHTS with a proud ferocity.  Neville sees the badly wounded BROWN coming, 
LICKING BLOOD from Grey to gain strength.  As his dog engages in struggle 
with White, Neville sees BOXER and DANE move in.

And Neville knows there is only one chance.  Summoning every ounce of 
strength and adrenaline in his body, he RISES to his feet and emits a 
guttural, primordial SCREAM.  Grimacing, denying the pain, he MOVES to the 
Land Rover, forcing his fragile limbs forward.

As Neville's dog and White engage in a brutal dance, Brown-rushing on the 
fresh blood--sets his sights on human prey.  Neville makes it to the Land 
Rover.  He rests against it-just for a moment--then reaches up and grabs the 
machine gun.  He turns.  Just in time to see Brown coming at him.

Neville OPENS FIRE and Brown is ripped in half.  Neville WHISTLES and his dog 
breaks away from White.  Neville shoots White, then SPRAYS bullets at the 
oncoming Boxer and Dane.  The automatic weapon fire has the desired effect 
and the two beasts--sufficiently intimidated--run away.

Neville and his dog relax for a moment, then, almost simultaneously, realize 
they have forgotten about the leader, the BLACK.  Who ERUPTS from behind, 
knocking Neville to the ground.  The Black is about to devour human neck when 
Neville's dog BITES into Black's hindquarters.  The Black YELPS, spins, and 
LOCKS ITS JAWS onto the dog's neck.

                    NEVILLE
          NO!!!!!!!

Neville SMACKS the Black with the butt of the machine KICKS him away, and 
OPENS FIRE, emptying the clip into the hellish thing.  Until it falls.  Dead.

Neville checks his dog.  The poor thing is bleeding badly.  Fueled by 
desperation and conviction, Neville LIFTS the dog and deposits him in the 
Rover.  Now well beyond pain-transcendent, really--Neville shuts the doors, 
climbs behind the wheel, and gets the hell away.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

NeviIle drives in darkness, one hand comforting the dog...

                    NEVILLE
          It's okay, boy.  You're gonna be okay.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

The Hemocytes on their nightly vigil.  Cortman observes Neville's house.  The 
lights are off.  No music, no signs of activity within.  Curious.  A trap?  
Perhaps not.  Cortman leaps off the promontory and leads his followers across 
the barren landscape, toward the outer fence.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville looks ahead, observing the terrain.  He's about half a mile away from 
home and can see the Hemocytes surrounding the compound.  He stops the 
vehicle and turns to the dog...

                    NEVILLE
          I'm going to get us home.


EXT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville exits, opens the trunk, straps on two SHOULDER HOLSTERS with fully 
loaded automatics and grabs two more clips for the machine gun.  He takes a 
JERRY CAN of gasoline, a rag, and quickly manufactures a king-size MOLOTOV 
COCKTAIL.


EXT.  STREET LEADING TO HOUSE - NIGHT

With its lights still off, the Land Rover slowly moves up the hill.  And 
violently ACCELERATES.


EXT.  AREA - SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

The Hemocytes furthest from the fence have no time to REACT to the speeding, 
armor-plated Rover heading straight at them.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville hits a series of SWITCHES.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

A BURST OF LIGHT!  Not only from the LAMPS, but from a RACK OF LIGHTS on the 
ROOF, two HIGH-BEAM lamps mounted near the side mirrors, and FOUR LIGHTS 
rigged near the trunk.

The Hemocytes SCREECH and retreat.  A few react like deer, frozen, and the 
Land Rover just PLOWS through them.  NEAR THE FENCE, CORTMAN REACTS.  He sees 
the Rover ROARING toward him and realizes Neville is outside the compound!  
He stands at the GATE--the only way into the compound--and BELLOWS...

                    CORTMAN
          STOP HIM!


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville maintains focus.  His eyes stay fixed ahead.  He sees the Warriors 
forming a wall in front of the GATE.  Takes a deep breath...  And STOPS the 
Land Rover.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

Hemocytes form a circle around the vehicle.  The LIGHT blinds them and 
SCORCHES their skin, but they must take advantage of this opportunity, they 
must get Neville!


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville readies the machine gun, undoes a ceiling BOLT.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

A HATCH opens on the ROOF of the Rover and Neville pops up.  He SPRAYS 
MACHINE GUN FIRE in a circle, keeping the Hemocytes at bay.  INTENSELY FIRES 
at the Warriors barring the gate.  Neville crawls out farther, rests the 
machine gun, and pulls out the JERRY CAN.  TWO BRAVE HEMOCYTES rush the Land 
Rover, SMASH a side lamp and headlamp, and crawl toward Neville.

He pulls a sidearm and SHOOTS!  Dead shots in their hearts. Takes a LIGHTER 
from his utility belt.  MORE HEMOCYTES move toward the Rover.  Neville spots 
them.  Lifts the MACHINE GUN.  FIRES, keeping them back--momentarily.  He 
tries to light the rag in the jerry can, but his hand isn't working well and 
the lighter SLIPS down the windshield.  Neville curses, crawls out, REACHES 
for the lighter...

His arm is GRABBED by a Hemocyte. EVA.  They lock eyes.  She smiles and 
TALONS emerge from her fingertips.

Neville's weak hand fumbles for a sidearm and PULLS the trigger.  A BULLET 
RIPS through Eva's shoulder, sending her back, spinning off the vehicle.  
Neville SNATCHES the lighter, ignites the rag, and THROWS the jerry can at 
the gate.  It lands with a THUD.  Neville FIRES the machine gun.  Bullets RIP 
into the can and BLAM!  A FIREBALL!  At least a dozen Warriors are roasted.  
They stumble away, SCREECHING.

Cortman knows what Neville has in mind and hurriedly leads a CHARGE at the 
Land Rover.


INT. LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville drops into the driver's seat.  He reaches up to close the hatch and 
sees the FACE OF A HEMOCYTE.  He FIRES.  The shattered Hemocyte face 
disappears from view and Neville SHUTS the hatch.  PRESSES the REMOTE 
CONTROL.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

THE GATE SLIDES OPEN.  Halfway to the Land Rover, Cortman realizes he's made 
an error.

                    CORTMAN
          BACK!  INSIDE!  INSIDE!

He changes the direction of the charge just as the Rover ROARS THROUGH THE 
FIRE.  SIX HEMOCYTES manage to jump on THE VEHICLE as it SPEEDS into the 
compound and abruptly STOPS.  Its REAR LAMPS SHINE on the open gate.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville hits the remote.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

The gate starts to shut.  Cortman and his Warriors RUN to it.  The HATCH on 
the roof of the Land Rover FLIPS OPEN.  Neville emerges, machine gun in hand.  
First, he BLASTS THREE of the Hemocytes clinging to the Rover. (The other 
three are smarter and hang onto the SIDES of the vehicle, out of Neville's 
field of Vision.)  Next, Neville SPRAYS the gate with machine gun fire, 
keeping Cortman and the Hemocytes at bay.  Neville can only urge the gate to 
move faster...

                    NEVILLE
          COME ON!  COME ON!

He empties one clip, loads the LAST of the three, takes a few more shots, 
then relaxes when the GATE IS SHUT.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville accelerates, shuts the hatch, hits another REMOTE.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

The other GATE--for the inner fence--SLIDES OPEN, as does the DOOR to the 
garage, revealing the sloping driveway leading underground.  The Land Rover 
ROARS over the moat. the THREE HEMOCYTES holding tight as the Rover descends.


INT.  UNDERGROUND GARAGE - NIGHT

The Rover SCREECHES to a stop, almost crashing into the wall.  The overhead 
door starts to CLOSE...


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville checks the dog, comforts him, and almost opens the door.  He stops 
when he faintly hears a SCRATCHING on the outer shell of the vehicle.


INT.  UNDERGROUND GARAGE - NIGHT

The Three Hemocytes quietly release their hold on the Land Rover and set foot 
on the garage floor.  They look to each other and devilishly smile.


INT.  LAND ROVER - NIGHT

Neville checks the VIDEO SCREENS.  There they are.

                    NEVILLE
          Were you fellas Boy Stouts?  You know
          what the Scouts always say... ?

He flicks a switch on another remote.


INT.  UNDERGROUND GARAGE - NIGHT

The three Hemocytes barely have time to notice the HALOGEN LAMPS lining the 
walls of the room before they BURST ON.  The creatures SCREECH! with pain.

Sunglasses covering his eyes, Neville calmly opens his door, steps out, and 
proceeds to exterminate the three pests.

QUICK MACHINE GUN BURSTS to the hearts of One and Two.  When the clip runs 
out, a pistol for the Third.

                    NEVILLE
          Be prepared.

As they lay dying, Neville shuts off the wall lamps, opens the passenger 
door, and gently carries out the wounded dog.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL FACILITY - NIGHT

Neville deposits the dog on an exam table.  How can he stand the pain?!  His 
body shinners with sweat from exertion, his eyes barely open, barely 
conscious.  After making sure the dog is stable, he tends to his own wounds. 
Can't help the dog 'til you help yourself.  He goes to a cabinet and INJECTS 
himself with a small dose of MORPHINE to eliminate the pain.  To keep himself 
alert, he sniffs a capsule of AMYL NITRATE, then injects himself with an 
ANTIBIOTIC.

He takes a SCALPEL and cuts open his pants leg.  The thigh is damn bad.  He 
cleans it--which stings like a mother--bandages it, then releases the 
tourniquet.  God, it hurts!  He thinks about another shot of morphine, but he 
must stay conscious.  He painfully removes his boots and cleans and bandages 
the ankle.  Now the wrist.  Swollen, throbbing.  He feels the tendons, the 
bones, locates the affected section.  He readies a splint, some tape, and 
more amyl nitrate.

And then, amazingly, Neville sets his own broken bone.  The pain is intense.  
He nearly passes out, but manages to crack open another capsule of amyl 
nitrate.  He applies the splint and tape.  It's sloppy, but it does the job.

Neville turns to the dog.  He injects the poor thing with a strong dose of 
morphine, knocking him out.  He cleans and bandages, making sure bleeding has 
stopped, but he knows, and we know, that these wounds are deep and serious.  
Neville watches the dog's sad eyes as the morphine kicks in.  He leans in and 
pets his faithful companion.

                    NEVILLE
          They will not have you.  I promise.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville moves to the central SECURITY PANEL.  Switches on the monitors, boots 
up the computer, flicks switches, etc.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

LIGHTS.  On the roof, along the fence, in the compound.  EVERYWHERE.  Lights 
at maximum power.


EXT.  AREA SURROUNDING COMPOUND - NIGHT

The Hemocytes REACT to the shock of illumination.  They scurry for cover, for 
pockets of shadow and darkness.  Cortman defiantly STANDS near the gate, at 
the fallen BODIES of his soldiers.  He screams a FIERCE CRY of anger as his 
skin sizzles from exposure to the light.  CHRISTOPHER runs to his side and 
PULLS him to safety.

BEHIND A WALL OF RUBBLE, Cortman and Christopher join Eva and the others.  
The group appears dispirited, disillusioned.  Others are angry, ready to 
attack.

                    CORTMAN
          How many made it inside?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          A half dozen.

                    CORTMAN
          And the others?  How many, Christopher?

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Altogether, over twenty dead. (a plea) 
          our numbers dwindle and we lose strength. 
          Perhaps it is time for change.  Time to move 
          on.  He is just one man.

                    CORTMAN
          After what he has done?  The blood he spilled?  
          All the souls taken?  We must never cease, 
          we--all of us--can never change.  Not if change 
          means allowing Neville freedom, life.  That 
          cannot be.

He looks at the wounded, the dead.

                    CORTMAN
          But you are right about one thing, Christopher. 
          That must change.  We have lost too many.  
          Neville's death will come, of that I am certain, but it 
          cannot come at the expense of our lives.  No more.
          (to his followers)  He will not have that pleasure.  
          But Neville will pay.  We will feast on his flesh and
          drink his blood.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

Neville manages to pull himself into the crow's nest.  He's armed to the 
teeth--ready for an onslaught.  He raises a RIFLE to his eye and looks 
through the scope.

                    NEVILLE
          All right, Cortman, come on.

HIS POV

No one there.  He scans the area around the fence.  There's one, two...  A 
few.  But their backs are turned and they're walking away.  No chants, no 
drumming.  Silence.  Defeat.  Is he grateful?  Astonished?  Or disappointed?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL FACILITY - NIGHT

Neville hobbles over to the exam table and turns his attention to the 
unconscious dog.  He stitches and disinfects--as if this were the most 
important medical procedure ever performed.  He will not let this dog die.  
He lifts one of the dog's eyelids and despises what he sees.

A faint greyness to the iris.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Neville searches for something near the Arsenal.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL FACILITY - NIGHT

Neville rests a heavy KENNEL CAGE / CARRIER on the floor.  He puts a child's 
blanket within, then places the dog inside.  Strangely, he CHAINS AND BOLTS 
the cage to the floor and walls.  He gives the dog a sad, knowing look and 
exits.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville sits himself in a chair, elevates his wounded legs, and loads another 
shot of morphine.  He injects himself and finally, mercifully, he sleeps.

                                             FADE OUT.

                                             FADE IN:


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAWN

The sun has risen.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - MORNING

CLANG!  CLANG!  Neville stirs from his drug-induced slumber.  INSTANT PAIN!  
His legs and wrist are throbbing!  CLANG!  CLANG!  NOISE from the medical 
facility.  He lowers his legs.  When the blood returns to them, the pain 
intensifies.  Neville administers another low-level shot of morphine, gets to 
his feet and hobbles toward the sound.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL FACILITY - MORNING

CLANG CLANG CLANG!  The dog is not happy about being in a cage.  BARKS at 
Neville when he enters.  Neville prepares a sedative and carefully injects it 
into the dog.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

Neville switches off the power for the exterior lights.  Hits the switch for 
the overhead door and remembers the Hemocytes he encountered here last night.

He steps to the Land Rover.  There, on the floor, are one, two corpses.  Both 
are completely drained of blood.  There were three.  Where's the third?  
Neville turns...  And sees the THIRD HEMOCYTE standing before him. mouth red.  
Body gorged on blood.  Death lust in his evil eyes.

Neville is so tired.  And doesn't have a gun!  Thank god for the SUN.  As the 
Hemocyte makes his move, the OVERHEAD DOOR slides open.  Neville backs up the 
ramp, into the LIGHT as it cuts into the room and descends upon the horrified 
Hemocyte.  The creature's skin blackens and blisters.  With a disturbing 
intensity, Neville GRABS the Hemocyte by the throat and DRAGS him up the 
ramp, into the HARSH SUNLIGHT.  Tosses him into the compound like a bag of 
trash.

                    NEVILLE
               (exhausted)
          Leave me alone.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S COMPOUND - DAY

Neville carries out the morning's grim task: gathering the corpses of the 
hemocytes killed last night.  Because of his weakened state, he builds a PYRE 
in the moat, adds the one he just finished off.  So sick of it. Just sick of 
it all.


EXT.  DESERTED HIGHWAY - DAY

The Rover heads out of the city, crossing the BAY BRIDGE.


EXT.  BERKELEY - DAY

The Land Rover speeds through the ravaged, desolate college town and veers 
toward the UNIVERSITY.


EXT.  U.C. BERKELEY - DAY

The campus looks like the scene of a war.  Not a riot, a war.  It is perhaps 
even more bleak than anything we saw in the city.  The Land Rover heads past 
a group of dead buildings, buildings which hold a terrible secret.  The sign 
reads:

MEDICAL SCIENCES - KRIPPEN CENTER FOR GENETIC RESEARCH

Spray-painted over the sign is one word:     ARMAGEDDON!


EXT.  KRIPPEN GENETICS BUILDING - DAY

The Rover stops and Neville hobbles to the bunker-like structure, dragging a 
PORTABLE GENERATOR.  Adorning the exterior wall--and we will see it within, 
too--is a LOGO.  A circle with a spiraling line cutting through the center.

We recognize it as the "mark" of Cortman and his followers. 


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - DAY

The LOBBY once saw awful carnage.  Dried blood cakes the walls as do scorch 
marks from fires.  Bullet holes are so plentiful, they create an odd "mural." 
more significantly, there is something ominous about this place.  The 
serpent's lair in the Garden of Eden.
Or Satan's throne room in Hell.

Neville wheels the Generator to a thick metal door.  Impenetrable.  He 
removes a panel from the floor and accesses a bundle of electrical wires.  He 
fires up the Generator and attaches feed connections to the bundle.  Attaches 
a bypass circuit and punches in his own code...

G-R-A-C-E.

The mammoth door HISSES, GROANS and OPENS, as if responding to an occult 
charm.


INT. KRIPPEN CENTER - DAY

Neville steps into the first room of a large genetics lab.  There are 
numerous rooms, each color and number coded, i.e. DNA STORAGE - ORANGE 7. The 
colors and ratings correspond to germ-free environments, biohazard 
conditions, etc.  Amazingly, much of the interior of the Krippen Center is 
clean and in working order.  But there are hints of disaster and violence--a 
bullet hole here, a blood spatter there.

Neville deposits the dog cage outside a room labeled ANIMAL RESEARCH LAB - 
RED 9 and walks to a LOWER LEVEL ROOM-ELECTRICAL - BLUE 5. He opens a panel 
and finds circuit breakers labeled EMERGENCY GENERATORS.  Switches them on.

THROUGHOUT THE FACILITY, overhead LIGHTS flicker to life.  The empty sterile 
rooms gleam with an antiseptic sense of dread.  We see a few of the ROOMS --- 
BLOOD LAB - RED 9. AUDIO VISUAL - GREEN 2. VIRUS STORAGE - RED 10.


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - AUDIO VISUAL ROOM - DAY

SHELVES filled with VIDEOTAPES.  Neville finds the ANIMAL TESTING section and 
selects a handful of cassettes.


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - ANIMAL LAB - DAY

Empty cages.   Surgical tables.  Microscopes.  A VCR and TV an A/V CART sit 
in the corner.  Neville pops in a cassette labeled TEST RESULTS/DOMESTIC 
ANIMALS/KRIPPEN 5/12/98.  Sits in a chair, elevates his legs, and watches as 
the TV plays...

ON THE TV SCREEN, we see the face of DR. JOHN KRIPPEN.  An intelligent, 
passionate face now panicked and deadened.  His eyes have seen great 
disappointments.  And even greater horrors. He speaks to a CAMERA which he 
runs himself.

                    KRIPPEN
          ... The viragene appears to have no discernible 
          impact an birds.  When injected into subjects, no 
          matter the size of the dosage, the result was death.  
          No mutation.  The same results with fish and reptiles. 
          (gravely) We had no such luck with the feline, canine,
           and rodent hosts.  All accepted the viragene, all mutated.  
          The mice and rats exhibited no hostility when infected, 
          nor did the cats, not really.  Their predatory instincts were 
          elevated, yes, but they maintained a more calculated, 
          cunning approach to...  feeding.  The dogs...  sadly, 
          they...  We saw the most alarming results with the dogs.  
          The viragene seems to bring out a savage instinct, 
          a primal brutality that goes beyond mere survival. (beat) 
          Just like the humans.


The LARGE IMAGE shows us video footage of a GERMAN SHEPHERD DOG in a strong 
metal CAGE.  The SMALL IMAGE is footage taken through a MICROSCOPE of the 
dog's BLOOD CELLS.

An LED READ-OUT at the bottom of the screen shows date and time (5/4/98/6:20 
a.m.) . Krippen's VOICE provides commentary on one AUDIO TRACK, the SOUNDS 
from the dog in the cage on the other.  There will be abrupt cuts and jumps, 
the tape having been hastily prepared.

LARGE IMAGE: SCIENTISTS inject the dog.  SMALL IMAGE: STRANGE NEW CELLS mix 
with the others. (5/4/98/6:25 a.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          Hemocyte viral genetic agent introduced
          into normal canine circulatory system.

ABRUPT CUT.  LARGE IMAGE: the Shepherd is happy and playful.  SMALL IMAGE: 
the strange cells appear to be gobbling up select others. (5/4/98/7:02 p.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          Just over twelve hours.  The viragene has 
          eliminated any diseased or unhealthy cells 
          in the host.

ABRUPT CUT.  LARGE IMAGE: the Shepherd is lethargic, depressed. SMALL IMAGE: 
the strange cells are eating healthy red blood cells. (5/4/98/11:10 p.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          Sixteen hours.  The viragene turns to
          healthy blood cells for fuel.

ABRUPT CUT.  LARGE IMAGE: the SHEPHERD is magnificently healthy.  Very 
active.  Hyper-alert.  He glows with remarkable strength.  An eerie blue-
greyness in its eyes.  Its fangs appear sharper, more savage.  SMALL IMAGE: 
fresh blood is introduced and we see the strange cells GROW AND MULTIPLY. 
(5/5/98/l:38 a.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          One liter of transfused blood introduced into 
          canine system.  The viragene feeds and 
          multiplies at a rate of .25 percent per minute.  
          Multiplication rate increases exponentially to 
          amount of blood injected into host.  Note 
          increases in muscle strength, bone mass, pulse, 
          adrenaline flow.

ABRUPT CUT.  LARGE IMAGE: the Shepard is weak, emaciated, irritable and 
hostile.  He barks and lunges at the scientists near his Cage.  SMALL IMAGE: 
The strange cells are desperately searching for blood cells, devouring them 
like candy. (5/7/98/2:00 a.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          Viragene consumes blood at an 
          astonishing rate. If more blood is not 
          introduced, subject will perish.

ABRUPT CUT.  LARGE IMAGE: the Shepard is dying.  An awful blackness in its 
eyes.  SMALL IMAGE: the strange cells have eliminated all healthy blood 
cells.  They move anxiously, searching, desperate to survive.  They lose 
momentum and cease movement. (5/7/98/3:33 p.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          No additional blood has been given to the
          host.  Subject terminates.

ABRUPT CUT.   LARGE IMAGE: The dog's dead form lies motionless.  A scientist 
carefully injects it with blood.  SMALL IMAGE: fresh blood cells swim past 
the dead cells.
They flicker to life. (5/9/98/4:24 p.m.).

                    KRIPPEN
          No heart, respiratory, or brain function in 
          forty-eight hours.  Fifty cc's of blood 
          injected into expired host.

LARGE IMAGE: the Shepherd's limbs TWITCH with life.  The bluegreyness returns 
to its formerly lifeless eyes.

                    KRIPPEN
          Reanimation occurs in 15.6 seconds.

LARGE IMAGE: the Shepard STAPES at the surveillance camera.  Bares its fangs 
and snarls.

Neville abruptly STOPS the tape.  He moves to the dog's cage and unhinges the 
door.  The dog is still sedated and Neville locates a syringe and DRAWS 
BLOOD.  He places a DROP on a glass slide and examines it under a MICROSCOPE.  
He REWINDS the videotape in SEARCH mode and FREEZES it so he can compare the 
SMALL SCREEN IMAGE to what he sees under the microscope.

The dog is still in the first stage.  Neville notes the LED readout--
5/4/98/7:02 p.m.). He FASTFORWARDS in SEARCH mode and STOPS on the IMAGE of 
the lethargic, depressed, hostile Shepherd. (5/4/98/11:10 p.m.). Sadly 
realizes how little time he has...


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - OFFICE - DAY

The nameplate on the door tells us this was the office of DR. JOHN KRIPPEN.  
Neville glances at the mementos on the desk-photos, awards--and wall--
diplomas, certificates, a PHOTO of the entire academic staff of Berkeley.  
Standing among the distinguished gentlemen and ladies is Robert Neville.

                                             
     FLASHBACK TO:


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - OFFICE - DAY

DR. KRIPPEN escorts a VISITOR into his office.  Offered a chair, NEVILLE sits 
opposite Krippen.  Looking every bit the professor in tweed jacket and 
corduroys, Neville smiles...

                    NEVILLE
          Thanks for seeing me, Dr. Krippen.

Krippen is happy, energetic, pleased with himself.

                    KRIPPEN
          We don't get too many visitors from the 
          History Department. (recalls)  We met at 
          the Christmas Party, didn't we?

                    NEVILLE
          Yeah, Jeff introduced us.

                    KRIPPEN
          That's right.

                    NEVILLE
          Listen, I know you're busy, so I'll get 
          right to it.  The work you're doing with 
          leukemia--from what I read in the paper, 
          it seems to me the same principles could 
          apply to other forms of cancer.

                    KRIPPEN
          Absolutely.  We chose leukemia because, 
          well, if we can do it with blood, we can do 
          it with just about anything in the body. 
          Once we tackle blood, the rest...

                    NEVILLE
          The lymph system?

                    KRIPPEN
          Down the line, yes.

                    NEVILLE
          How far down the line?

                    KRIPPEN
          What's the problem, Professor ?

                    NEVILLE
          Six months ago my daughter Grace was
          diagnosed with lymphatic cancer.

                    KRIPPEN
          How old is she?

                    NEVILLE
          Seven. (a plea)  If you could see her...

                    KRIPPEN
          I'd be happy to recommend someone, but
          there's really nothing I can do.

                    NEVILLE
          Please...

Krippen's SECRETARY pops her head in...

                    SECRETARY
          The "Nightline" crew is here.

                    KRIPPEN
          Have them set up in the lab, Margie. Oh!
          And let Ben know they're here.

                    SECRETARY
          Right.

She exits.  Neville feels insignificant, rejected.

                    KRIPPEN
          Going to be on TV tonight.

Neville sort of nods.  Krippen scribbles a name and number on a piece of 
paper, gives it to Neville.

                    KRIPPEN
          Dr. Tom Bernardi.  He's the best pediatric 
          oncologist I know.  Make sure you tell him 
          I referred you.

                    NEVILLE
          We have a doctor.

                    KRIPPEN
          Well. I see.  If you'll excuse me, professor.

Neville nods, stands, as Krippen shows him the door.

                    NEVILLE
          Sure.


INT.  KRIPPEN CENTER - MAIN CORRIDOR - DAY

Krippen hurries to the LAB.  Neville stands outside the office and crumples 
the piece of paper in his fist.  Through a glass partition, we catch sight of 
a PATIENT.  As if he senses Neville's stare, the man turns...

It is Cortman.  Healthy.  Human.

                                             END 
FLASHBACK:


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

Neville offers a bowl of food to the dog, but it is uninterested.  Neville 
tries a dish of water.  No reaction.  The dog sadly curls up in a corner of 
the cage.

                                             DISSOLVE 
TO:

Neville examines a recent blood sample from the dog under the microscope.  
His reaction tells us things are getting worse.

                                             DISSOLVE 
TO:

Neville sits in the corner, on the floor, watching the dog slowly die.  The 
poor thing is withering away to flesh and bone.  Neville can't stand it.  He 
rises, reaches for a GUN, and aims at the dog's heart.  His arm hangs there, 
waiting.

The dog's pained eyes look to him...  Why?  Neville cannot do it. Lowers the 
gun.  And makes the decision.  He takes a syringe and begins to withdraw 
BLOOD from his own arm.  He allows a catheter to pour the red liquid into a 
pan. when he's lost about half a pint, he stops the process, opens the cage 
door, places the dish inside, LOCKS it.

He cannot watch as the animal hungrily laps up the blood.

                                             DISSOLVE 
TO:


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Neville stands in the crow's nest, rifle nearby.  He raises the night-vision 
binoculars to his eyes ... Nothing.  No sign

The dog.  Forever changed.  Rejuvenated by the blood.  Possessing a new 
strength. It paces, gnaws on the bars, and growls at Neville.  The icy grey-
blue eyes of the dog do not see a friend, a master.  They see food.  
HOWWWWWWWWLLLLLLLLLL!  The beast's appetite is great.  The hunger painful.  
Neville curses himself for what he has done.  SLAMS shut the door.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDIA CENTER - NIGHT

Neville cranks MUSIC-Tchaikovsky's 1812 Overture.  LOUD.  Neville sits.  
Thinks.  Nervous.  Concerned.  He lurches to the stereo and shuts it off.  Is 
drawn to a stack of
VIDEOTAPES.  Most labeled KRIPPEN.  Another handful: CORTMAN.

A TV SCREEN FLICKERS TO LIFE: NIGHTLINE with Ted Koppel.  Neville stares.  
Painful memories...

                    TED KOPPEL
          ... and this is 'Nightline.' The world of medicine 
          has seen its share of miracle cures, from polio 
          vaccine to heart transplants.  However, all past 
          achievements may pale in comparison to the 
          work of Dr. John Krippen...

The tape FAST-FORWARDS.  DR. KRIPPEN engages with Koppel...

                    KRIPPEN
          The process is simple.  A blood cell is 
          genetically engineered to incorporate the 
          properties of a virus.  When this viragene is 
          introduced into a diseased circulatory system, 
          the new cells seek out the cancerous cells, 
          destroy them, and replace them with healthy 
          cells.

                    TED KOPPEL
          There is some concern, though, doctor,
          because of the viral element.

                    KRIPPEN
          We need to use a powerful virus, yes, 
          but the virus itself is made impotent. 
          We simply utilize its essential characteristics, 
          its benefits--rapid duplication, molecular strength.  
          This isn't really a virus.  It's not contagious, 
          it's not destructive.

Neville LAUGHS.  He fast-forwards.  The video image now includes CORTMAN.  He 
and Krippen are seated in the lab.  Cortman is the picture of vitality and 
health.  Although a bit pale, he's muscular and charismatic...

                    TED KOPPEL
          Joining us from Berkeley is "Patient One," 
          Mr. Benjamin Cortman.

                    CORTMAN
          Hello.

                    TED KOPPEL
          Mr. Cortman, one year ago, you were 
          diagnosed with terminal cancer.  Leukemia.

                    CORTMAN
          That's correct.

                    TED KOPPEL

          And today?

                    CORTMAN
          I'm cured.  Thanks to Dr. Krippen.  
          Every blood cell in my body is 100% healthy.  
          Better than ever before.

                    TED KOPPEL
          Indeed.  There have been rumors, Dr. Krippen, 
          that your viragene not only eliminates disease, 
          but revitalizes the system as well.

                    KRIPPEN
          That is a positive side effect, yes.

                    TED KOPPEL
          What other side effects are there?

                    CORTMAN
          None, really, that...

                    KRIPPEN
          ... Photosensitivity...

                    CORTMAN
          ... Oh. Yeah.  The sun...  My skin is really 
          sensitive to light

                    KRIPPEN
          Which has to do with blood supply...

                    KOPPEL
          Yes, and that brings up the harshest 
          criticism of your work, Dr. Krippen.  
          The tremendous amount of donated blood 
          needed to pursue these experiments...

                    ELLEN'S VOICE
          He's very handsome.

Neville turns...

REVEAL we are now in his OLD BEDROOM.  Watching TV with his wife.  Their 
daughter GRACE fast asleep in Neville's arns. (NIGHTLINE continues in the 
background).

                    NEVILLE
          Krippen?
     
                    ELLEN
          No, silly, the other one.  The patient.

                    NEVILLE
          He was there today.  I saw him.  
          He had scary eyes.

                    ELLEN
          Scary is attractive.  Don't you know
          anything, Bobby?

CLOSE ON CORTMAN'S FACE.  VIDEO STATIC.  The NIGHTLINE tape has been 
replaced.  We are now watching an in-house INTERVIEW with Cortman inside the 
Krippen Center.

He is inside a PADDED CELL.  The camera recording this must have been behind 
a thick wall of PLEXIGLASS.  Cortman STARES at the lens.  He is naked save a 
pair of boxer shorts.  His body is muscular, his extremely pale skin drenched 
in sweat.  He's lost most of his hair and his eyes are ice.

He's in a very agitated state.  He paces, no stalks around the cell, 
occasionally pounding his fists against or headbutting the plexiglass wall.  
KRIPPEN'S DISEMBODIED VOICE is piped into the cell.

                    KRIPPEN'S VOICE
          Ben?

Cortman SLAMS his body into a wall.

                    KRIPPEN'S VOICE
          Ben?  Why don't you try to calm, down?

Cortman RUSHES to the plexiglass and sneers...

                    CORTMAN
          Calm?  CALM?!  YOU WANT ME TO 
          FUCKING CALM DOWN?!!  
          YOU GO TO HELL, KRIPPEN. 
          YOU GO THERE AND MEET YOUR 
          MAKER.

                    KRIPPEN'S VOICE
          Ben...

                    CORTMAN
          GIVE IT TO ME! ! ! !

We HEAR Krippen push something through a SLIDING TRAY into the padded cell.  
Inside, Cortman LUNGES for the contents of the drawer--a plastic packet of 
BLOOD and a syringe.

                    KRIPPEN'S VOICE
          Please use the syringe this time, Ben.

Cortman throws the needle.  RIPS open the blood packet and DRINKS.  Every 
drop.  Licks the plastic clean.  Mouth smeared with crimson, he placidly 
approaches the plexiglass...

                    CORTMAN
          You don't understand, doctor.   
          It's the taste.  The flavor.   
          (lost in reverie)  I can feel it...  
          Feel it inside me. (laughs) 
          God.  It's so beautiful...

The blood races through his veins, apparent to us due to the translucence of 
Cortman's flesh.  His muscles grow-pectorals, biceps.  A transformation from 
man to superman.

                    CORTMAN
          You did this.  You made me. I am the
          future, Dr. Krippen.  Live with that.

VIDEO STATIC.  A new tape.  KRIPPEN.  A shell of a man.  A wreck.  In the 
b.g., a 
blaring ALARM and flashing EMERGENCY STROBE LIGHTS.  From head to toe, he is 
soaked with water.  He clutches computer print-outs.  Clears his throat and 
tries to muster up his former pride and dignity...

                    KRIPPEN
          The latest estimates have it spreading to the 
          rest of the country in six days.  By the time 
          it hits New York, ninety-five percent of the 
          population of California will be infected.  
          The fighting in the streets... The bloodshed... 
          I fear is nothing but a harbinger of the real 
          battle yet to come. (fights back nausea)  We 
          have determined that exposure to sunlight, 
          plasma starvation, oxygen depravation, massive 
          blood loss, and severe damage to the heart are 
          the only lethal means of stopping those...  infected. 
          Even so, cremation is the sole guarantee that 
          reanimation will not occur.

He wipes moisture from his eyes.  The ALARM stops.  Somewhere, beyond the 
thick walls of the center, we HEAR the CRIES of the Hemocytes...

                    VOICES OUTSIDE
          Krippen...  Krippen...

                    KRIPPEN
          Yes.  Well.  My latest blood test reveals 
          I am in stage two of the disease.  Already 
          my mind is beginning to deteriorate into 
          fantasies of savagery. I feel the desire to 
          feed, but I cannot bear the thought of it.  
          Nor can I bear the thought of... 
          Of Cortman ripping me open.  Gutting me.  
          Feasting...

He pulls something from his pocket.  A LIGHTER.  We finally notice an object 
in the background.  An empty GASOLINE CAN.

That's not water he's covered with.

                    KRIPPEN
          God forgive me.

He ignites the lighter.  His body BURSTS INTO FLAMES.

Neville shuts off the TV.  Why?  Why did I watch it again?  Why torture 
myself?!  He presses his fists against his temples.  Closes his eyes.  
HOWWWWWWWWWLLLLLLLLLL...  The dog again.  It BARKS and MOANS...

                    NEVILLE
          STOP IT!  STOP!

Neville watches the SECURITY MONITORS.  Where are they?  HOOOOWWWWLLLL... 
Damn dog.  Neville STORMS to the medical center.  He looks like he could 
strangle the beast,
but he stops and leans against the door...

                    NEVILLE
          I'm sorry...

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:

MORNING.  Neville asleep.  Slumped against the med center door.  All is 
quiet.  But the silence is broken by a HORRIFIC CRY OF PAIN.  Neville bolts 
awake.  He flings open the door.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - MORNING

A SHAFT OF SUNLIGHT slices through the room to the cage.  The dog desperately 
tries to stay away, but the light touches its tail and sizzles.  The dog 
CRIES.  Neville shoves the cage aside and covers the window with a blanket.  
He moves to tend to the dog, hut it snarls at him as he approaches.

The dog's body is thin and weak.  Its eyes are blank, the tongue a sick, 
pasty white.  Neville draws blood from himself, but places the packets in a 
refrigerator.  The dog sees them, and it drives him mad with thirst.

He yelps and whines, begging for the blood, but Neville betrays no emotion.
How could he torture the poor thing like this?


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - OUTER FENCE - DAY 

Neville walks the perimeter.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY 

A stoic Neville eats breakfast.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GREENHOUSE - DAY 

Neville tends to his garden.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

Neville repairs the Land Rover.  Four o'clock.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

Neville enters, careful not to allow in sunlight.  Switches on a flashlight.  
Its beam finds the dog.  Inside the cage.  Dead.  This is what Neville 
expected.  He covers the cage with a blanket and retrieves the blood from the 
refrigerator.


EXT.  WOODS/PARK - DAY

The Land Rover drives over rough terrain, through an unpopulated, thickly 
wooded park area, and stops at Land's End, overlooking the Pacific Ocean.

Neville climbs out, machine gun in hand, and surveys the area.  The dirt 
reveals SMALL ANIMAL TRACKS and up above, in the sky, are a few SEAGULLS.  
Neville can't believe it.  He hasn't seen a bird in quite awhile.  When they 
see him, however, they take flight, soaring out to the ocean.

Neville steps down to the BEACH.  To his right, a LIGHTHOUSE and PIER.  To 
his left, built into a hillside, is a THICK IRON DOOR.  A weather-beaten sign 
reads SAN FRANCISCO UNDERGROUND TRANSIT--MAINTENANCE TUNNEL.


INT.  LIGHTHOUSE - DAY

Neville searches. Empty.  Nothing lives here.  When he reaches the top, 
Neville looks out at the majestic ocean, the sun beginning its descent.  He 
looks down at the PIER.  And spies an old TUGBOAT moored there.


INT.  TUGBOAT - DUSK

Neville takes a closer look.  Apparently, the craft is still seaworthy. 
What about it, Bob?  Just go...


EXT.  BEACH - DUSK

Neville removes the cage from the Rover and pulls off the blanket.  He fills 
a syringe with his blood, takes the already-prepared packets and rests them 
on the ground.  He looks at the dog's dead eyes and whispers...

                    NEVILLE
          Good-bye.

He opens the cage door, injects the beast with blood, then quickly runs to 
the Land Rover and locks himself inside.


INT.  LAND ROVER - DUSK

Neville watches as the dog's body twitches back to life.  It lifts its head 
and color--icy blue-grey--returns to its eyes.  They find Neville.  He 
exchanges one last look with the dog, then speeds away, unable to linger.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Again, Cortman and the Hemocytes do not come.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

A forlorn Neville sits at the table, his dinner uneaten.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville watches the surveillance monitors.  Nothing.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM NIGHT

Neville in bed, wide awake.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Neville stares at his uneaten breakfast.  In a sudden BURST of VIOLENCE, he 
SWIPES the food onto the floor.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Although it's the middle of the day, Neville lies in bed, eyes staring 
blankly ahead, gently rocking himself.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDITATION ROOM - DAY

Neville stares at the religious icons.  They mean nothing.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

The Land Rover ROARS out of the compound.


EXT.  SUBURBS - DAY

The VEHICLE stops outside a decaying grocery store.


INT.  GROCERY STORE - DAY

Neville fills a SATCHEL with bottles of LIQUOR--scotch, wine, gin, vodka.  
What the hell, grab CIGARETTES, too.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Neville stands at the kitchen table.  Fills a goblet with wine, a tumbler 
with scotch, and a martini glass with gin.  The ritual is complete.  Just one 
last step.  Just go ahead... He lifts the tumbler of scotch to his lips.  
Stops.

He returns it to the table and goes to the media center.  Locates and plays a 
VIDEOTAPE.  One of his "diary" tapes, clearly made awhile ago.  This Neville 
is pudgy, pasty, heavily bearded, and very drunk.  He holds a PISTOL in one 
hand and a bottle of booze in the other.

                    NEVILLE (ON TAPE)
          ... Nobody tells Bob Neville what to do.  
          That's because there is nobody--not one 
          damn body--to tell me anything! (laughs) 
          What the hell difference does it make, 
          anyway, right?  Most people are bores, 
          or assholes, or creeps, or... People betray you,
          people criticize you, people steal from you.  
          Who needs people? (laughs hard)  People who 
          need people are the stupidest people in the world.

In the background, we hear VOICES bellowing, "Neville..."

                    NEVILLE (ON TAPE)
          SHUT UP!  SONSOFBITCHES!

He FIRES madly at the walls.  HURLS the bottle, shatters it.

                    NEVILLE (ON TAPE)
          Fuck.  What'dja do that for, Bobby?  That
          was the last of the scotch.  Stupid.

He points the gun at his own temple.  Pulls the trigger.  CLICK.  Empty 
chamber.  Neville breaks up with LAUGHTER.  The tape is shut OFF.  Neville 
stares at the blank screen.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT 

Neville empties the bottles of liquor into the sink.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT 

Neville lies in bed.  Wide awake.

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GREENHOUSE - DAY

Many of the fruits and vegetables are rotting.  


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN DAY

Dirty dishes piled in the sink.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT DAY 

The shooting range is empty.  Exercise equipment unused.  


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDIA CENTER - DAY 

No wall of sound.  No "normalcy."


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

Neville still in bed.  Empty food wrappers and water bottles litter the 
floor.  He stares at the PHOTO of his wife and daughter.  He's been staring 
at it for days.  Finally, before he--and we--can take it no longer, he sits 
up...

                    NEVILLE
          Get up, Bob.  Just get up.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAY

The VIDEO CAMERA sits before him, recording.  Neville stares at the lens, 
words failing to come to his mouth.  And then...

                    NEVILLE
          My name is Robert Neville.  I was born 
          in Des Moines, Iowa.  I had a wife Ellen 
          and a daughter Grace.  Since this all 
          happened, I've had many dogs.  They're 
          good scouts, good sentries.  They were 
          necessary.  And disposable.  But this last one,
          he...  He was a good dog.  He seemed to... 
          Gracie would've liked him.  It was my fault.  
          My own stupid fault.


EXT.  GOLDEN GATE PARK - DAY

Dishevelled and depressed, Neville wanders around the park and finds himself 
at Portals of the Past.  Somewhat dazed, he sits on his usual bench.  One of 
his old LEAFLETS at his feet.  He 
smirks at his desperate plea for contact then realizes something is written 
on the other side...

WHERE ARE YOU ROBERT???

For a moment, he thinks he's going crazy.  But no, it's there, right in front 
of him.  And then he notices the entire bench is covered with leaflets.  
Crudely, quickly taped down.  All bear variations of the same message...

WHERE ARE YOU?

He stands.  Disbelieving.  Exhilarated.  Terrified.  Suspicious.  He rips the 
flyers from the bench, frantically gathering them.  One which conveys a more 
detailed message...

I HAVE TRIED FOR DAYS TO MEET YOU. WHERE ARE YOU,
ROBERT? I AM ALONE AND NEED HELP.  ARE YOU FOR REAL?

Neville feels a shiver run through his body.  He searches his
pockets for something to write with and scrawls a reply...

I'm sorry,  I'm sorry, I'm sorry.     I should have been here every  day. I 
will be 
here tomorrow, I will. 12 noon.  When the sun is highest in the sky.     I am 
real.
I will help.   I am here.

He signs his name and tapes it to the bench.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm here, (shouts)  I'M HERE. (at the
          top of his lungs)  I AM HERE.

His VOICE ECHOES throughout the city.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

Again, the area is devoid of Hemocyte activity.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - VARIOUS - NIGHT

Like a housewife preparing for company, Neville cleans the house from top to 
bottom.  Changes bedding, washes clothes, tends to the garden.  There's a 
manic energy to his activity.  He's not entirely "all there."

And then, when everything is clean, when the house sparkles, he turns to 
himself.  He showers, shaves, clips his nails, washes his hair.  Stares at 
himself in the mirror, smiling.

And the smile fades as a moment of clarity prevails.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Near the firing range, Neville dismantles a thick wire door used for storage.  
He gathers some lumber, some metal plating, and his tools.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - NIGHT

Neville dumps everything from the basement into the room.  Clears out a 
corner and gets to work.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Wearing a fresh outfit, bulletproof padding, and heavily armed, Neville 
climbs into the Land Rover.


EXT.  GOLDEN GATE PARK - DAY

Neville stakes out the surrounding area.  Checks any place where someone 
might hide.  Places MOTION DETECTORS in a circle about two hundred feet 
surrounding the bench.  Doublechecks his weapons.  Looks at his watch.

11:45.  He waits.  Not sure what to expect.  He rests an ELECTRONIC DEVICE 
next to himself on the bench. It will alert him to anything that moves past 
the sensors.

11:55.  The area surrounding the bench is relatively free of clutter.  A 
waste basket, rotting garbage, newspapers, etc.

12:01.  Neville looks around.  Already anxious.  Clutches his machine gun.  
He does not hear or see the pile of ROTTING GARBAGE move.  He does not see a 
HAND.  He does not see a HUMAN FIGURE emerge from a HOLE, dug into the ground 
behind the bench, a GUN in its hand...

However, Neville does feel the barrel press into his neck.

                    WOMAN'S VOICE 
          Don't move.

Neville does not panic.  Simply does as he is told.

                    WOMAN'S VOICE
          Now.  Real slow.  Put the gun down.

Neville follows orders.  The gun barrel fits snugly into the base of his 
skull.

                    WOMAN'S VOICE
          Well, well, well.  I was beginning to think 
          you were a fairy tale.

She starts to move around him.  The gun moves with her.

                    NEVILLE
          Oh no.  I'm real.

And with the quickness of a cat, Neville ducks and BACKHANDS her hard.  She 
FIRES a wild shot.  Neville PUNCHES.  SQUEEZES her wrist until she releases 
her gun.  Neville grabs it and PISTOL BUTTS her in the forehead, knocking her 
out.

He stands.  Finally able to look at his attacker.  She's covered in filthy 
rags from head to toe.  Neville pulls back the cloth covering her face...  
Although sheathed in dirt and grime, she is beautiful.  Her flesh doesn't 
boil and blister in the sunlight.  He brushes away her long dark hair.  She 
can't be over twenty.  She's still a kid.

Neville checks the area, the sensors.  No, she's alone all right.  He checks 
the hole and finds a full BACKPACK.  Grabs it, tosses it over his shoulder, 
lifts her in his arms, and carries her to the Land Rover.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - DAY

The GIRL lies on an exam table, unconscious.  Neville removes the filthy 
clothing, stripping her down to t-shirt and leggings.  Can't let his eyes 
dwell on her breasts, her...

He washes her face and tends to her forehead.  He prepares a syringe and when 
he looks for a vein, he sees TRACK MARKS running up and down each arm.  He 
moves to her BACKPACK and dumps its contents.  A few cans of food, rounds of 
ammunition, a flashlight, batteries, syringes and ampules of Red Cross 
MORPHINE.  Neville shakes his head.

He takes the syringe and carefully withdraws a BLOOD SAMPLE from a vein in 
her hand.  Despite the long, dirt-encrusted fingernails, they are beautiful 
hands.  Exquisite.  He looks away.  Takes the blood sample, injects it into a 
test tube, and places it in the centrifuge.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - NIGHT

All is quiet.  Again, the Hemocytes fail to appear.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - NIGHT

Neville sits at the table, eating dinner and looking at bloodwork through a 
portable microscope.  From the Medical Center, we hear a RATTLING.  Then a 
TERRIBLE SCREAM.  Neville expected this.  He takes a plate of food from the 
stove.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - NIGHT

Neville opens the door and we SEE the Girl is trapped inside a CAGE.  
Constructed last night by Neville specifically for this purpose.  She is not 
happy.  Like a rabid, feral animal, she rattles her cage and SCREAMS. He sets 
the plate of food on the counter and sits in a chair a few feet away from 
her.  Calm.  Cool.  Waits for her to blow off steam.

                    NEVILLE
          You hungry?

                    THE GIRL
          LET ME OUT!!!

                    NEVILLE
          What's your name?

                    THE GIRL
          GO TO HELL!  That's my name!  
          Go To Hell.

He opens his hand revealing a vial of MORPHINE- She stops.

                    NEVILLE
          You're addicted?

                    THE GIRL
          That's mine.

                    NEVILLE
          Your blood's full of this shit.

                    THE GIRL
          Give it to me.

                    NEVILLE
          But you're not infected.  AB Negative.
          You're immune.  Like me.

                    THE GIRL
          I said that's mine.  You have no right.

                    NEVILLE
          That was pretty good.  Your little stunt
          in the park.  Got the drop on me.

                    THE GIRL
          I...

                    NEVILLE
          Yeah?

                    THE GIRL
          I wasn't sure.  It coulda been a trick. 
          You coulda been one of them.  When 
          they first get it, they can still take the sun.  
          That's why I'm in here, right?  You weren't 
          sure about me, either.

                    NEVILLE
          That's right.

                    THE GIRL
          But...  You seen my blood.  You know I'm
          okay, so let me out.

He grabs a sponge, soap, and a bowl of water.  Places them-and the food--on 
the floor just outside the cage.

                    NEVILLE
          You should eat.  And wash up.  
          You smell pretty bad.

                    THE GIRL
          Fuck you.

                    NEVILLE
               (re the morphine)
          Do it and you get some of this.

                    THE GIRL
          Give it to me NOW.

                    NEVILLE
          This isn't a negotiation.

She lifts the bowl, soap, sponge and HURLS it at Neville.  He sidesteps as it 
shatters on the wall.  She lifts the food and THROWS, SPLATTERING his shirt.

                    THE GIRL
          NO  NO  NO  NO  NO  NO  NO!

                    NEVILLE
          Fine.  We'll try this again a little
          later when you're feeling more... civil.

                    THE GIRL
          GOD DAMN YOU TO HELL!

OUTSIDE THE ROOM, Neville shuts the door, leans against it.  Closes his eyes 
and covers his ears, trying not to be affected by her cries.  He cannot let 
her see him like this.  He cannot be weak.  He must be in control.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville changes his shirt.  For a brief moment, he's drawn to the photo of 
his wife.  The Girl's screams have become pathetic whimpers.  She's crying.  
In desperate need of a fix.  Neville sits on the edge of his bed.  Composes 
himself.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDICAL CENTER - NIGHT

Neville steps inside.  The Girl lies on the floor of the cage, sweating, 
shivering.  Between sobs, she pleads...

                    THE GIRL
          Please, mister.  I'm sorry.

Neville prepares a morphine vial and syringe.

                    NEVILLE
          You have to cooperate.  I'll cooperate, too.  
          You talk to me, tell me a few things, 
          and I give you this.

                    THE GIRL
          Fucking blackmail.

                    NEVILLE
          What's your name?

No response.  Just eyes on the morphine.

                    NEVILLE
          Come on.

                    THE GIRL
          Anna.

                    NEVILLE
          Anna.  Anna what?

                    ANNA
          Please...

                    NEVILLE
          Anna what?

                    ANNA
          Anna McCauley.

                    NEVILLE
          Anna, I'm Robert.  Robert Neville.

Ever the gentle , he extends his hand for her to shake, but she just smirks 
at the gesture.

                    ANNA
          I know who you are.  
          Everybody knows who you are.

                    NEVILLE
          Everybody.  What do you mean 
          everybody?

                    ANNA
          Where I came from.

                    NEVILLE
          Where's that?

                    ANNA
          Give me the fucking drugs.

                    NEVILLE
          Where?

                    ANNA
          Just outside Portland.  There were 
          ten of us living in the woods.  It was 
          good, you know, real nice, a real "family." 
          Then... six months ago, the first ones
                    (MORE)

                    ANNA (cont'd)
          came.  We killed most, but more showed 
          up the next night.  Me and Doug were the 
          only ones to get away.  The only ones left alive.

                    NEVILLE
          Where's Doug now?

                    ANNA
          Doug's dead.  GIVE ME THE DRUGS.

                    NEVILLE
          Why come here?  To the city?

                    ANNA
          We ran into some people in Eureka.  
          They got a whole operation up there.  
          Soldiers started it up.  Gung-ho assholes.  
          Survivalists.  They got food, guns, a 
          hospital.  They knew about you.  Down 
          here.  All on your own.

                    NEVILLE
          Bullshit.

                    ANNA
          It's not.  I swear.

                    NEVILLE
          Why not stay with them?

                    ANNA
          Because I didn't want to spend the rest of my 
          already pathetic life getting gang-raped, okay?  
          They murdered Doug.  And they had other 
          plans for me.  But I got away.  I got away.

Neville explodes to his feet.  Angry.  Confused.

                    NEVILLE
          There's no one!  No one else!  I tried... 
          The radio, signal flares, it's pointless.  
          For years I've tried...

                    ANNA
          Then how do you explain me?

He approaches with the syringe.

                    ANNA
          Thank you.

She sticks her arm out of the cage.

                    NEVILLE
          Can't find a vein.

                    ANNA
          Yes you can, yes you can.

Neville finally locates one and injects.  Once the syringe is emptied into 
her arm, he steps back.  Anna smiles and leans against the walls of the cage.  
Her eyes open wide with fear.  Her body shakes.  She looks nauseous.

                    ANNA
          This isn't morphine!

                    NEVILLE
          No.  No, it's sticelezine.  They developed 
          it for rapid heroin detox, but it'll work for 
          morphine addiction, too.

                    ANNA
          You prick!

She lunges at him, but her stomach cramps and she falls.

                    NEVILLE
          It's a severe shock to the system, but the 
          treatment only lasts twenty-four hours.

                    ANNA
          I swear, I'll kill you.

She collapses.  Losing consciousness.

                    NEVILLE
          You won't go through withdrawal--it's not 
          a painful process at all.  You'll be asleep 
          most of the time.  There's risk of heart attack, 
          but I'll be monitoring you.

Anna's eyes roll back into her head.  Her body goes limp.  Neville unlocks 
the cage door and lifts her into his arms.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville rests Anna on his bed.  She's still filthy, so he makes the decision 
to wash her.  He cuts away her t-shirt and leggings with surgical safety 
scissors and throws them away.  He tries very hard not to be entranced by her 
young, thin body.  He simply does a job. or tries to.

He fills a basin with warm water, soaps a sponge, and gently washes her body.  
Up her legs, her buttocks, around her stomach, her breasts.  Shampoos and 
rinses her hair.  Softly caresses her face with a washcloth.

It's an undeniably sensual experience, but Neville does not cross the line.  
He is respectful.  We see he has the heart of a caretaker.  There is a 
gentleness to his actions which inform us that he must have been a wonderful 
husband.  And a caring father.  Neville opens a TRUNK and finds a NIGHTGOWN 
among his wife's things.  Carefully fits Anna into it.  He steps back and 
observes her.  Peaceful.  Beautiful.  Angelic.

Just like Ellen.

He kneels, almost in prayer, then hooks her up to an I.V. and adjusts the 
flow of the medication.  Neville takes towels and blankets, rips them into 
strips, and secures Anna's wrists and ankles to the bed frame.  She's 
comfortable, but secure.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GREENHOUSE - DAWN

Neville selects the best fruit from his garden.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DAWN

Neville places the fruit in a blender with some protein powder and water.  
Boils some oatmeal on the stove.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Anna is somewhat conscious.  Neville undoes her wrist ties and sits her up.  
Like a father with a newborn, he attempts to feed her.  She spits up and he 
wipes her face.

                    NEVILLE
          We've got to get something into you.

He lifts a glass of the protein shake to her lips and she manages to drink 
some down.

                    NEVILLE
          Good girl.

He lowers her onto the bed and gives her a series of three injections.  
Carefully following procedure in a MEDICAL MANUAL.  When complete, he 
reattaches the wrist ties and sits in a chair opposite Anna.  Watches her 
sleep.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - A FEW HOURS LATER

Anna's body convulses.  Neville expected this.  He prepares a syringe, 
injects her, and she relaxes.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville stands on the balcony, sipping a cup of coffee.  The sun sets beyond 
the hills, over the ocean.  He hears Anna stir and moan.  He checks her blood 
pressure, temperature, pulse, and pupil dilation.  Is satisfied with her 
vitals and removes the I.V. He gives her a final injection, removes one
of the wrist ties and sits her up as she gains consciousness.  Neville sits 
beside her with a bowl of rice and a spoon.  Tries to get her to eat, but she 
shoves it away.

                    NEVILLE
          I know you're hungry.

She is starving.  But she won't allow him to feed her.  With her one free 
hand, she takes the bowl and spoon from him and feeds herself.  Big gulps of 
rice.

                    NEVILLE
          Slow down.  You'll get sick.

She listens.  After a few bites, she realizes that she is clean and in 
someone else's clothes.

                    ANNA
          What did you do?

                    NEVILLE
          You were filthy.

                    ANNA
               (angry)
          Did you enjoy it?  Giving me a little
          bubble bath?  Did you like my body?

                    NEVILLE
          Eat.

                    ANNA
          Did it turn you on?  Did I get you hard?

                    NEVILLE
          Stop.

                    ANNA
               (re the nightgown)
          Who's is this?  Your mommy's?  Grandma? 
          (sly)  Mrs. Neville?

From his reaction, she knows she guessed right.

                    ANNA
          Ah, I get it.  Clean me up, dress me like 
          the dear departed.  Then what? Wait 'til I 
          pass out and have a quick fuck for old time's 
          sake?  Was I any good?  I'd like to know...

                    NEVILLE
          STOP IT.

He explodes.  She LAUGHS.  He secures her free wrist to the bed.  She 
continues LAUGHING...

                    ANNA
          Bondage.  I'm into it.  Was she?

Neville closes the shutters to the balcony.  Gathers up medical supplies and 
the food, heads downstairs.

                    ANNA
          What's the matter?  Can't get it up?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville sits at the bottom of the spiral staircase, face buried in his hands, 
determined not to let her see him hurt.  He moves to the surveillance center 
and checks the monitors.  Still no sign of Cortman and the Hemocytes.  He 
adjusts a few knobs, a joystick controller, changing angles.

Something is out there.  He ZOOMS IN.  Dogs.  Half a dozen contaminated dogs.  
Scavenging.  He ZOOMS IN closer, trying to get a better look.  No. He's not 
with them.  A CRASH from upstairs.  THUMPING.  Neville bolts up the spiral 
staircase.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Anna is convulsing.  The I.V. is on the floor, the needle detached.  Neville 
loosens the restraints and cradles her body until her limbs cease flailing.  
She vomits and he carries her into the bathroom.  She heaves into the toilet 
and breaks into a cold sweat.  He washes her face, and wraps her in a 
blanket.  She looks at him with terrified eyes...

                    ANNA
          I'm scared.

She leans into him and he holds her.

                    ANNA
          I'm really scared.

                    NEVILLE
          It's okay.  I'm here.

She begins to cry and he softly caresses her face.

                    NEVILLE
          I know.

She buries her face into his shoulder, sobbing.  He looks at the blank walls 
of the bathroom, stroking her hair...

                    NEVILLE
          I know.

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:

INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING

Anna sits at the kitchen table wearing the nightgown and Neville's robe, 
gently rocking.  Neville places a bowl of oatmeal and a cup of tea in front 
of her.  The same for himself.  He eats, she doesn't.

                    NEVILLE
          It'll help with the nausea.

She takes a few bites.  Sips her tea.  They eat in silence for awhile until 
Anna decides to make conversation.

                    ANNA
          How long have you been here?

                    NEVILLE
          Almost twelve years.  This was my house.
          Is my house.

                    ANNA
          I guess I thought you found it... Took it 
          over when... it happened.  Why did you stay?  
          Everybody knew to get out of the cities.  
          They took over the cities.

                    NEVILLE
          My home.  They can't take that from me.

                    ANNA
               (tries to compliment him)
          You...  fixed it up real nice.  I feel safe here.

Neville sort of nods a thanks.

                    ANNA
          Don't you get lonely?

                    NEVILLE
          I keep busy.  There's a lot to do.

                    ANNA
          Answer the question.

                    NEVILLE
          Of course I do.

She nods.  Understands.  But wants to know more...

                    ANNA
          I heard a lot of things.  About you.

                    NEVILLE
          Like what?

                    ANNA
          That you've killed hundreds of them.  
          Thousands...

                    NEVILLE
          And?

                    ANNA
          That you like it.

He doesn't respond.

                    ANNA
          They say you chop off their heads and 
          stick 'em on poles.  That you cut out their 
          hearts and eat them raw.  They say you rape 
          the women and cut off the men's cocks and 
          shove 'em in their mouths.

                    NEVILLE
          Where did you hear this?

She hesitates for a moment.  Then answers...

                    ANNA
          Up in Eureka.  Those guys...

                    NEVILLE
          Right.

                    ANNA
          Do you?

                    NEVILLE
          Do I what?

                    ANNA
          Do those things?

                    NEVILLE
          What do you think?

She doesn't answer.

                    NEVILLE
          I've got work to do.  If you feel up to
          it, you can help.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - COMPOUND - DAY

Neville spot-checks the fences.  Makes repairs where necessary.  Anna 
follows, carrying a spool of wire.

                    ANNA
          Why stay here?  Why not take off?  Who
          knows what you might find.

                    NEVILLE
          Exactly.

                    ANNA
          You afraid?

                    NEVILLE
          I know what's here.  Out there, I have nothing.  
          Here, I have everything.  You said it before.  
          I'm safe.

                    ANNA
          I said I feel safe.  Doesn't mean I am safe.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GREENHOUSE - DAY

Neville tends to the garden.  Anna picks strawberries.

                    ANNA
          I mean, there could be more like you.  
          Like me.  Uninfected.  Surviving.  
          Aren't you curious?  Don't you want to know?  
          There's a whole country... A whole continent...

                    NEVILLE
          How old are you?

                    ANNA
          Nineteen.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm forty-two.  When you're forty-two,
          you like staying put.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - GARAGE - DAY

Neville fills the generators, checks the Land Rover, the back-up car, the 
motorcycle.  Anna eats strawberries.

                    ANNA
          Are you gonna rape me?

Neville looks at her with disbelief.

                    NEVILLE
          Hadn't planned on it, no.

                    ANNA
          Those guys in Eureka, that's what they
          had in mind.

                    NEVILLE
          I figured as much.

                    ANNA
          Why are they like that?

                    NEVILLE
          Who?

                    ANNA
          Men.  Most men are like that.

                    NEVILLE
          Not me.  So don't worry.

                    ANNA
          Yeah, but you're...  weird.  Not normal.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm not normal? (re the strawberries) 
          Not too many of those.  You'll get sick.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - DAY

Neville replaces bulbs in lamps.  Anna searches the surrounding area with a 
pair of binoculars.

                    ANNA
          Why do you think this happened?  
          My dad thought it was God.  God got 
          so pissed off at what people were doing, 
          He decided to end it.  Once and for all.

                    NEVILLE
          This isn't about punishment.  God doesn't
          want us to suffer.

                    ANNA
          Oh yeah?  Why then?  Why let this happen?

                    NEVILLE
          We let this happen.  Not Him.

                    ANNA
          How do you know?

                    NEVILLE
          I don't.  That's just what I believe.  If
          I didn't, I would've blown my brains out
          a long time ago.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - DUSK

Anna and Neville sit down to dinner.  Neville whispers a blessing, then 
serves the food.

                    ANNA
          Robert?

First time she's called him that.  He looks up.

                    ANNA
          Can I stay here?

He analyzes her beautiful, youthful face.  Her tough exterior has vanished 
like so much vapor.

                    NEVILLE
          If you want.

                    ANNA
          I do.  Thank you.

He nods and shyly returns to his plate.  They sneak glances at each other as 
they share the rest of dinner in silence.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOF - NIGHT

Neville shows Anna how to switch on the powerful exterior lights.  He lifts a 
pair of binoculars to his eyes and surveys the area.  Again, no Hemocytes.

                    NEVILLE
          Have you gone?  Have you?

He retreats inside.  Anna hesitates on the roof.  Looks at the barren area 
beyond the compound fences.  She waits for a moment, apparently deeply torn, 
then follows.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - SURVEILLANCE CENTER - NIGHT

He shows her the various closed-circuit screens and computer.

                    NEVILLE
          For movement outside the far fence, your 
          best vantage point is the roof.  Beyond that, 
          you're better off down here. (re the monitors) 
          Visual checks here, (re the computer) sensor 
          checks here.  The area surrounding the house is 
          monitored for changes in heat, sound, movement.  
          If one gets inside the fence, you'll know.

The computer displays the electronic mines.

                    NEVILLE
          If you can't take them out with a shot from the 
          roof or one of the windows, use these.  Each 
          spot on the screen corresponds to a keyboard 
          command.  Press it and it ignites a mine.  
          Just make sure you have the right one.

                    ANNA
          Kind of cold-blooded isn't it?

                    NEVILLE
          There are hundreds of them and just one of me. 
          (rethinks)  Two of us.  It's just the way it has to 
          be.

Anna thinks she sees the system's fatal flaw, a weakness.

                    ANNA
          What happens if they all come-over the
          fence?  All at once?

                    NEVILLE
          They won't.

Neville hits a button on the computer keyboard.  All the "mine" symbols start 
blinking red.  He throws a switch and an ALARM sounds.  A RED LIGHT FLASHES.  
Anna panics.

                    NEVILLE
          In thirty seconds, the whole thing goes up. 
          The house, the yard, the hill.  All of it.

                    ANNA
          Turn it off!

Neville enjoys her discomfort.

                    ANNA
          TURN IT OFF!

He pushed it too far.  Shuts the system down.

                    NEVILLE
          Two years ago, I captured one of them.  
          Brought him inside and showed him just 
          what I showed you.  Then I let him go.  
          They know. (remembering) Do you remember 
          the old Cold War?  No, you were too young.

                    ANNA
          I read about it.

                    NEVILLE
          Well then.  During the Cold War, there was 
          an unspoken understanding.  If any of the 
          major powers launched an all-out assault, 
          the target country would retaliate in equal force.  
          It would mean total destruction.  The attack 
          would be rendered meaningless.  So peace was 
          maintained.  I guess you could call it peace, 
          even what I have with Cortman--(MORE)

                    NEVILLE (cont'd)
          it's a sort of peace.  We have our border
          clashes, skirmishes.  But we both know...

                    ANNA
          Where are they now?

                    NEVILLE
          I have no idea.  It could be a trick.  
          They might be gone.  Once and for all.  
          Most of them--when things began to 
          settle down--became nomadic.  When a food 
          supply became depleted, it became necessary 
          for them to move on, to find new sources.  
          But he remained.  Laying his claim.  
          Establishing a power base.

                    ANNA
          Who?

                    NEVILLE
          Cortman.

                    ANNA
          Who's Cortman?

Neville almost laughs.  Can't believe she doesn't know.

                    NEVILLE
          Who's Cortman?


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - MEDIA CENTER - NIGHT

TVs litter the floor.  Like an obsessed librarian, Neville searches for the 
perfect assortment of videotapes.  Anna sits in a chair like a moviegoer 
waiting for the show.

                    NEVILLE
          How old were you?  Sixteen?

Anna nods.

                    NEVILLE
          Where were you living?  Portland?

                    ANNA
          No.  We lived in the mountains.  
          About two hundred miles east.

                    NEVILLE
          You didn't see any of this?

                    ANNA
          My dad didn't allow TV.  My brother... 
          My brother and I used to sneak into the 
          car to listen to the radio sometimes...

                    NEVILLE
          But you never saw?

                    ANNA
          Not until after.  Not 'ti1 it was all over.  
          When they came our way.  From the cities.  
          My father thought cities were Sodom and 
          Gomorrah.  And they were the offspring.  
          The damned.

He inserts the first cassette.

                    NEVILLE
          You know what I did?  I taught history.  
          I've kept all this as a record.  A document 
          of the truth.  Someday, it might help.  
          Someone, someone in the future... 
          They can see.  See for themselves what 
          happened.

He presses PLAY.  TV NEWS FOOTAGE.

                    NEWS ANCHOR 
                    (ON TAPE)
          ... a disturbing occurrence at Berkeley.
          Our John Sanchez is on the scene...

The tape now shows a herd of REPORTERS, FIREFIGHTERS, and POLICE OFFICERS 
outside the KRIPPEN CENTER at Berkeley.

                    SANCHEZ (ON TAPE)
          Three doctors and two security guards were 
          murdered as ten patients fled the Krippen Center 
          for Genetic Research.  We have no information on 
          the nature of the work being done here, but...

He sees a wounded DR.  KRIPPEN escorted from the Center by two policemen.  
Blood drips from his forehead.

                    SANCHEZ (ON TAPE)
          Dr. Krippen?  Dr. Krippen?  
          Can you tell us why the C.D.C. was alerted?  
          Is there a public danger?

Krippen looks shell-shocked.  He hides his face and slinks into the rear of a 
police car.

Neville shuts off the tape.  Presses PLAY on another deck, another TV 
springing to life.  VIDEO FOOTAGE of the San Francisco CHIEF OF POLICE at a 
PRESS CONFERENCE filled with ANGRY REPORTERS.  Blown-up PHOTOS of the 
"Krippen Ten" rest on easels behind him.  Most prominent is a photo of 
CORTMAN.  Neville points to it for Anna.

                    NEVILLE
          That's him.  That's Cortman.

                    CHIEF OF POLICE
                    (ON TAPE)
          These men and women are considered extremely 
          dangerous.  They have now killed twenty people 
          in just forty-eight hours.  Including four police 
          officers.

                    REPORTER ONE 
                    (ON TAPE)
          Chief, we've gotten no clear answer on this... 
          Are these people carrying some kind of virus?  
          We have a right to know.

                    CHIEF OF POLICE
                    (ON TAPE)
          I'm going to turn that over to Dr. Petersen 
          from the C.D.C.

DR. PETERSEN steps up to the microphone.

                    DR. PETERSEN 
                    (ON TAPE)
          Upon the CDC's review of Dr. Krippen's 
          research, Washington has given us the authority 
          to term this a Code Red situation.  Each of the 
          ten is carrying a potentially lethal virus-type agent.

SHOUTS AND CRIES FROM THE PRESS.

                    REPORTER TWO 
                    (ON TAPE)
          Is it contagious?

                    REPORTER THREE 
                    (ON TAPE)
          What are the symptoms?

                    DR. PETERSEN 
                    (ON TAPE)
          Listen, we're still trying to get a handle on 
          this ourselves.  The Berkeley campus is under 
          quarantine.  For the moment, we have no plans 
          to implement such containment in the city itself.

Neville shuts off the tape.

                    NEVILLE
          No, but you should have. 
               (to Anna) 
          You don't know what it was like.  
          The fear.  The panic.

He starts another.  VIDEO FOOTAGE of the GOVERNOR OF CALIFORNIA reading a 
statement.  The poor man looks absolutely distraught.

                    GOVERNOR (ON TAPE)
          ... just spoken to the President.  Although it 
          grieves me to do so, for the safety of our citizens, 
          the National Guard has declared a state of martial 
          law in the State of California. I am told such 
          considerations are underway in Arizona, Nevada, 
          Utah, and Oregon.  Under the statutes of martial law, 
          and in accordance with the extreme circumstances of 
          this situation, all personally-owned firearms will be 
          confiscated by the military.  Also, a mandatory curfew
          --for all civilians--is instated.  The curfew will begin at 
          sunset and last until sunrise the following day.  Anyone 
          on the street during this period is considered dangerous.  
          A "shoot-to-kill" order has been issued.  Anyone exhibiting
          symptoms of infection must admit themselves to the 
          nearest medical facility for treatment. If a child is 
          symptomatic, the parent or parents will be held responsible.  
          Noncompliance in this request is a punishable offense.  
          Punishable by death.  Finally, all bodies...  All victims... 
          must be properly disposed of.  If you see a corpse, do not 
          touch it.  Call the 800 number at the bottom of the screen 
          and a disposal unit will be alerted.  
          God have mercy on us all.

Neville switches off the tape.  Turns to Anna.

                    NEVILLE
          In six days--less than a week--the world turned 
          upside down.  San Francisco became a war zone.  
          Do you know what people do when you tell them 
          they no longer have rights?  That an individual is 
          powerless?  They fight.  It was ludicrous to think 
          mankind would just roll on its back and comply.  
          I saw my neighbors--people I've known for years--
          become bloodthirsty savages.  Infected, uninfected, 
          it didn't matter.  We were all driven mad.  The survival 
          instinct went ballistic.  Food, guns, medicine, blood
          --it all became priceless.  Worth killing for.  Those 
          who had became the targets of the had nots.  
          A city of five million people.  Within a month more 
          than half were dead.  Six weeks later, about ten thousand 
          like me.  AB Negatives.  We were all determined to 
          (MORE)

                    NEVILLE (cont'd)
          live.  But we didn't gather together.  There was no 
          unity.  It was every man for himself.  Trust had 
          been abolished.  By the end of the year, it was me.  
          Just me.

                    ANNA
          How?  How did you do it?

                    NEVILLE
          I remained calm.  It's the great secret of survival.  
          When all around is chaos, when everyone is driven
          to the brink of insanity...  relax.

                    ANNA
               (a confession)
          Don't you...  Don't you wish, sometimes,
          that you died too?  With everybody else?

                    NEVILLE
          Every day.

BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.  A sensor ALARM.  Neville bolts to the surveillance center.  
Scans the monitors for signs of activity, but finds nothing.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm going to the roof.  Stay here.

He grabs a rifle and heads up the staircase.  Anna moves to the videotapes.  
Curious to find a certain something...


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOFTOP - NIGHT

Neville surveys the area with binoculars.  For a brief moment, he thinks he 
SEES SOMEONE going over the far fence.  He raises the rifle scope, but finds 
nothing.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

VIDEO IMAGE.  Neville's wife, ELLEN, playing in a park with daughter GRACE.  
Home video.  Happy times.

                    NEVILLE'S VOICE
          Turn it off.

REVEAL ANNA.  Watching the tape.  She turns to him...

                    ANNA
          She was beautiful.

                    NEVILLE
          Turn it off, Anna.

                    ANNA
          What happened to her...?

                    NEVILLE
          TURN IT OFF.

He MOVES to the TV and presses the wrong button.  The image won't go away.  
Angry, disturbed, he frantically tries to shut it off, then YANKS the plug 
out of the wall.

                    NEVILLE
          Don't do that again.  Ever.

He shuts off the other electronics.

                    NEVILLE
          You should get some sleep.

                    ANNA
          What about you?

                    NEVILLE
          I'll be fine.  I get about two or three
          hours just before dawn.

                    ANNA
          You sure?

                    NEVILLE
          Go to bed, Anna.  Please.

She heads upstairs.  Steals a glance at him, but he isn't looking at her, 
he's looking at his reflection in the blank TV screen.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT - A FEW HOURS LATER 

Anna sleeps.  An angel.  REVEAL NEVILLE standing over her.

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:

Neville lies on a mat on the floor.  Staring at the ceiling.

                                             
     FLASHBACK TO:


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

ELLEN stands at the living room window, anxious, nervous.  OUTSIDE, ARMY 
HELICOPTERS fly overhead.  The streets are virtually deserted.  Dusk is 
approaching.  And the curfew.  Ellen checks her watch.  The Land Rover 
SCREECHES into the driveway.  NEVILLE hurries into the house carrying a big 
gym bog.  Ellen opens the door and LOCKS it once he's inside.

                    ELLEN
          Where were you?!

Neville draws the curtains.

                    ELLEN
          You have a phone in the goddamn car.

                    NEVILLE
          Kitchen door locked?

                    ELLEN
          What?

                    NEVILLE
          IS IT LOCKED?!

Neville opens the bag revealing a MACHINE GUN and clips of ammunition.  Ellen 
is paralyzed by the sight of it.

                    NEVILLE
          Where's Grace?

                    ELLEN
          Asleep.

                    NEVILLE
          How's she doing?  Is she...

                    ELLEN
          Bob!

                    NEVILLE
          WHAT?

                    ELLEN
          Where did you get it?

                    NEVILLE
          One of my students is in the National
          Guard.  He gave it to me.

                    ELLEN
          Gave it to you?

                    NEVILLE
          I traded him.

                    ELLEN
          Traded what?

                    NEVILLE
          Blood.  My blood.  There's some kind of 
          rumor going around that transfusions of 
          AB Neg can keep you safe.

                    ELLEN
          Is that true?

                    NEVILLE
          No.  But he thinks so.

                    ELLEN
          For God's sake, what if they find out?!  
          Do you know what they'll do?  They're 
          killing people who hide guns!

                    NEVILLE
          Just SHUT UP, Ellen.  Okay?

They stop when they sense Grace in the room.  She's staring at them with 
dark, glassy eyes.  Emaciated, clearly infected.  She just looks at them--as 
if their fighting was her fault.

                    GRACE
          Daddy?  I'm scared.

Neville feels an overwhelming sadness.  He moves to her just as she faints.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  A few days later.  We MOVE with Neville into a DARKENED 
BEDROOM...

                    NEVILLE
          Ellen?

He SEES his wife, sitting on the edge of the bed.  Her wrist is BLEEDING and 
the weak Grace is drinking from the wound.  A guilty Ellen explains to her 
horrified husband...

                    ELLEN
          She needs it, Bob.  And I'm not afraid.
          What is meant to pass will pass.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  TWO C.D.C. MEN IN BIOHAZARD SUITS enter the house.  A 
BIOHAZARD-SUITED NATIONAL GUARDSMAN stands watch.  The C.D.C. Men see Grace's 
dead form.  Neville stands in a corner, very near the edge of shock.  One of 
the C.D.C. men turns to him, his voice electronically distorted...

                    C.D.C. MAN ONE
          It's just the two of you, sir?

                    NEVILLE
          Yes.  My wife died last week.

They load Grace into a body bag and carry her to the door.  OUTSIDE, a 
GARBAGE TRUCK waits.  More GUARDSMEN.  More GARBAGE TRUCKS on every street.  
The distraught Neville, maintaining composure, moves to his pre-customization 
Land Rover.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm coming with you.

                    C.D.C. MAN ONE
          That's not allowed.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm AB Negative.  Besides, you can't stop
          me.  I still have that right.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  Neville's Rover stops outside the ARMY GOLF COURSE--the 
MASS BURIAL SITE.  The GARBAGE TRUCK unceremoniously dumps its cargo.  The 
body bags fall.  A BIOHAZARD-SUITED WORKER carrying a large HOSE sprays the 
corpses with GASOLINE.  Another WORKER tosses a TORCH over the side and the 
pit ERUPTS IN FLAMES.  Neville watches in horror, the crimson fire reflected 
against his skin.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  Neville in his HOUSE.  He UNLOCKS the door to the master 
bedroom.  KNOCKS a warning...

                    NEVILLE
          Ellen?  It's me.

He pushes into the room and we SEE a terrified Ellen huddled in the corner 
clutching the machine gun.  She is pale and emaciated.  Sweating, paranoid.  
Infected.

                    ELLEN
          Are they gone?

                    NEVILLE
               (tenderly)
          They're gone, sweetie.

He kneels beside her.  Eases the gun out of her tight grip.

                    NEVILLE
          It's okay...

                    ELLEN
          Is she...?

                    NEVILLE
          She's gone, honey.  It's over for her.
          She's at peace.

Ellen begins to sob.  Desperately hugs him.

                    ELLEN
          Oh God, Bob.  Just kill me.  Please.

It would probably be best, but the idea is anathema to him.

                    NEVILLE
          I can't do that.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  The CEMETERY.  Working quietly and in darkness, Neville 
slips past SECURITY and carries Ellen's dead body to the TOMB.  INSIDE THE 
CRYPT, he lays her to rest.  She's dressed in her WEDDING GOWN.  Neville 
places her within the stone coffin and kneels in prayer.

                    NEVILLE
          I love you, Ellen. I will love you forever.

CLOSE ON HER FACE as the stone coffin lid slides into place.

THE IMAGE DISTORTS.  San Francisco in ruins.  Buildings and cars on fire, 
crashed helicopters smoldering in the streets.  HORRIBLE CRIES of pain and 
thirst.

NEVILLE'S HOUSE.  The first crude barricades up.

INSIDE, Neville sits in a chair in the center of the room, empty bottles of 
LIQUOR at his feet, a cigarette dangling from his lips.  Dirty, unshaven.  
The machine gun resting in his lap.  He just stares.  Waiting.  FISTS POUND 
AGAINST THE DOOR,.  GLASS BREAKS.  ARMS REACH INSIDE.

He waits.  A small band of HEMOCYTES breaks through the front door.  Neville 
readies the machine gun, stands. Calm.  The terrifying creatures move toward 
him.  Six, maybe eight.  And he sees the leader's face...

Ellen.

Skin translucent, body muscular, almost naked--the wedding gown stripped 
away.  Her eyes are icy, dead.  Long claws extend from her fingertips.  She 
smiles at her husband...

                    ELLEN
          Robert...

Neville raises the gun to his eye.  Takes aim.  Ellen and the Hemocytes are 
upon him.  He looks into her lifeless eyes. Hungry for him. I knew you would 
come, Ellen.  I knew.

                    NEVILLE
          God forgive me.

And he OPENS FIRE.

                                             END 
FLASHBACK.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville SCREAMS as he comes awake from his nightmare.  He lashes out at 
imaginary attackers.  Utterly terrified. Anna JUMPS from her bed and tries to 
calm him...

                    ANNA
          Robert!  It's okay!

He flails, but she holds him.  He leans into her, sobbing.

                    ANNA
          It's okay...

They both receive something from the embrace.  A connection.  A necessary 
thing.  A simple human need for touch, for understanding.  He looks into her 
eyes.  She gently touches his face.  They kiss.  Deeply, passionately.

They make love with deep emotion, sensitivity, and passion.  As if they were 
proving to each other and to themselves that they are still human, that they 
can steel feel.

                                             FADE OUT.

                                             FADE IN:


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - MORNING 

Neville prepares breakfast for Anna. 


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - MORNING

Carrying a tray, Neville quietly enters and delivers breakfast-in-bed to her.  
Sunlight streams in through the window-slits.  She leans against him and he 
holds her.


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - DAY

Neville and Anna walk the perimeter.  Hesitantly, she reaches out and takes 
his hand.

                    ANNA
          Would you ever leave here?

Neville doesn't answer.  He spots something entwined in the barbed wire over 
the main gate.  He lets go her hand and climbs up a series of ladder steps 
nailed into the wood on the interior of the gate posts.  He reaches the top 
and pulls out a piece of clothing... 
A little boy's BLUE PARKA.

                    NEVILLE
          How'd this get up here?

Unseen by Neville, Anna is frozen.  Her eyes fixed on the parka.  Color 
drains from her face.  Neville drops to the ground and examines the dirty, 
tattered coat.

                    NEVILLE
          Must've been a bad wind last night.

He turns to Anna, who is still fixed on the parka.

                    NEVILLE
          What's wrong?

                    ANNA
          Nothing.

She smiles and kisses him.

                    ANNA
          Let's go inside.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - DAY

In a series of DISSOLVES, they make love all afternoon.

                                             
     DISSOLVE TO:


EXT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - ROOFTOP - DUSK

Neville stands in the crow's nest, eyes on the horizon.  A vibrant red-and-
purple sky.  Massive clouds.  Breathtaking.  Neville exudes a sense of peace.  
A beguiling tranquility.

                    ANNA'S VOICE
          Robert?

He turns and sees her.  She wears a simple, pretty dress and a scarf around 
her neck.  Very feminine. Ellen's.

                    NEVILLE
          You look beautiful.

                    ANNA
          Dinner's ready.

She goes to him and he holds her.  Has she been crying?

                    NEVILLE
          Are you sad?

                    ANNA
          No. No.

She kisses him.  Looks at his dirty hands and clothes.

                    ANNA
          You should wash up.

Her smile seems genuine. He obeys and heads downstairs.

                    NEVILLE
          Yes ma'am.

Anna hesitates.

                    ANNA
          I'll be right down.  
          I just want to look at the sunset.

Neville smiles and descends. when he is out of sight, Anna's smile fades.  
She appears distraught, torn.  She undoes the SCARF and ties it high on the 
crows nest, like a flag.

A signal.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - KITCHEN - NIGHT

The table is beautifully set and Anna has made dinner.  Romantic MUSIC in the 
background.  She stands near the table, waiting, as Neville comes from 
upstairs.  He approaches the tender domestic setting.

                    ANNA
          I hope it's okay. I haven't actually
          cooked anything in god knows how long.

                    NEVILLE
          Looks wonderful.

He kisses her.  It takes her a moment to fall into the embrace, the warmth.  
Just as soon as she gives in, she breaks off.  Smiles and instructs 
Neville...

                    ANNA
          Sit.  Before it gets cold.

Anna returns to the kitchen and carries a PITCHER--the blender, really--to 
the table.  She pours him a wine-glass full of what looks like a fresh fruit 
shake.

                    ANNA
          I looked for wine...

                    NEVILLE
          Not here.

                    ANNA
          Right, so I made a sort of virgin fruity thing...

He takes a sip.

                    NEVILLE
          It's good.

She smiles and takes her seat.  They start to eat, both a little nervous.  
Like a first date.  Anna watches as Neville takes another drink, tries the 
meal--chicken and pasta.

                    NEVILLE
          This is great, Anna.  Thank you.

She picks at her food.  He takes her hand.

                    NEVILLE
          I'm sorry about what I did.  When I 
          brought you here.  I felt I was doing 
          what was right.  I want you to know, Anna, 
          that I care.  About you.

                    ANNA
          I know.

                    NEVILLE
          I would do anything for you.

                    ANNA
          Don't say that.  Please...

                    NEVILLE
          Why?  I mean it.  I would...

                    ANNA
          Please, Robert, please...

BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.  A SENSOR ALARM.  BEEP-BEEP-BEEP.  Neville rises from the 
table and heads to the surveillance station.  As he walks, his stomach cramps 
up, but he presses on.  When he looks into the monitors, what he sees shocks 
him...

ON THE MONITORS, THE HEMOCYTES.  Hundreds of them.  Cortman and his entire 
tribe.

                    NEVILLE
          My god.  Anna...

He WINCES in pain when his stomach cramps again.  Anna doesn't move from the 
table.  She just sits and watches him.

                    NEVILLE
          Anna!

He's very confused by her behavior.  His vision BLURS and for a moment, he's 
dizzy, and then he remembers.

                    NEVILLE
          The lights.

He SWITCHES ON the exterior compound lights, but nothing happens.  Outside 
remains dark.

                    NEVILLE
          Anna!  Downstairs.  The generators...
          Something must be wrong with...

He takes a step and falls to his knees.  The pain is intolerable.  He braces 
himself from falling over.  His vision is cloudy, his speech starting to 
slur...

                    NEVILLE
          What's happening?

Anna slowly rises and comes to him.  He reaches out for her, but she passes 
and moves to the surveillance center where she UNPLUGS the computers and 
security monitors.

                    NEVILLE
          Oh, Jesus, no.  You can't do that...

He glances at the kitchen table.  His nearly-empty GLASS.  Sees hers was 
never filled.  He looks to Anna.  She stands in the middle of the room, 
shivering with fear and shame.  Tears in her eyes.  Neville feels completely 
betrayed.

                    NEVILLE
          Why?

Anna cannot look at him.

                    ANNA
          I'm sorry.  I'm so sorry.

And then he hears...  "Neville... !"  He crawls across the floor, makes it to 
his feet, and pulls himself up to one of the window/slits.  A nightmare is 
what he sees...


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

Numerous POLES are placed against the fence.  HEMOCYTES--all mouths red with 
fresh blood--prepare for a massive assault.
CORTMAN climbs the first pole, stands atop the gate to the compound and 
addresses the troops...

                    CORTMAN
          We have waited long enough. The hour is 
          nigh.  Let us pay a visit to the Devil.

CHRISTOPHER signals the DRUMMERS, who beat out the charge.  EVA HOWLS to her 
WARRIORS, who in turn emit a FIERCE BATTLE CRY.  And Cortman leads them over 
the side...


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville falls to the floor.  Eyes wide with fear.  Again, he manages to get 
to his feet, stumbles to the staircase, and heads upstairs.  Anna follows...

                    ANNA
          Robert!  It's over!


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Fighting exhaustion from whatever drug he's been given, Neville forces 
himself to move.  He stumbles and slips, but succeeds in opening a CABINET 
near the balcony.  He grabs the FLARE GUN, a case of FLARES and opens the 
STEEL SHUTTERS.

                    ANNA'S VOICE
          No, Robert.

He sees her standing at the stairs, a GUN pointed at him.  Her hand is 
trembling, her face stained with tears.

                    NEVILLE
          I assume if they wanted you to kill me,
          I'd be dead already.

He loads the first flare.  She waves the gun.

                    ANNA
          Please!

Neville steps onto the balcony and FIRES into the air.  Anna can't bring 
herself to do any more.  She lowers the gun and covers her face in shame.  ON 
THE BALCONY, Neville LOADS and FIRES flare after flare.  The night sky 
becomes filled with phosphorescent orange light.  He aims a few at the fence, 
and the final flare at the moat.


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

The moat ERUPTS IN FLAMES, catching a few, but most have moved beyond the 
moat, to the inner fence.  CORTMAN hisses and sneers, his gaze fixed on his 
nemesis on the balcony.

                    CORTMAN
          NEVILLE!

The two antagonists lock eyes.  Neville above, Cortman below.  Heaven and 
Hell.  The gasoline fire burns, black smoke spiraling into the sky.  The mass 
of Hemocyte bodies swarm toward the house.  The flares slowly sink to the 
earth, leaving glowing trails behind them.  A surreal, hallucinatory, 
horrifying scene.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BEDROOM - NIGHT

Neville stumbles inside and from the cabinet grabs a SHOTGUN, MACHINE GUN, 
and all the ammo he can carry. He loads the shotgun and turns to Anna.  For a 
brief, very brief moment, he ponders the act of killing her.  Then simply 
states...

                    NEVILLE
          Get out of my way.

She steps aside and falls to her knees as he heads downstairs.


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - LIVING ROOM - NIGHT

Neville falls down the last few steps.  For a moment, he lies there.  SOUNDS 
of the Hemocytes POUNDING, SCRATCHING, SCRAPING at the outer shell of the 
house.  Neville's eyelids are heavy.  Sleep.  Just let it come...

                    NEVILLE
          NO!

Using the machine gun as a crutch, he defiantly gets to his feet and stands. 
Eyes shifting from one spot to the next as the SOUNDS direct him.  The SOUNDS 
are intolerable...

Fingers.  Hands.  Arms.  Forcefully tearing apart the house, reaching inside. 
Neville hefts the machine gun in one hand, the shotgun in the other.

                    NEVILLE
          Come on!

And they come.  The blood-fueled, rage-filled faces of the Hemocytes poke 
through the crumbling walls, their sharp talons ripping open the house like a 
birthday gift.

Neville OPENS FIRE.  Merciless and unfeeling.  The last acts of a desperate 
man.  Blood sprays, but the Hemocytes press on. Most of their wounds non-
lethal, they crawl into the room like a swarm of insects.  Neville manages to 
drop a few, but the onslaught is endless, limitless.  He pushes back, heading 
downstairs...


INT.  NEVILLE'S HOUSE - BASEMENT - NIGHT

Neville shuts a TRAP DOOR, sealing off the upstairs.  He makes it to the 
ELECTRICAL CONTROL PANELS.  They've been irrevocably sabotaged.  Why, Anna?  
Why?  Breathing heavily, he goes to the DOOR to the GARAGE.  He's about to 
unbolt it, stops.  Listens... Scratching.  Scraping.  Voices on the other 
side...  "Neville..."  They're in the garage.

Neville is trapped.  Hemocytes to all sides.  The outcome is inevitable.  He 
drops the machine gun.  Loads one last round in the shotgun.  Kneels.  Puts 
the barrel under his chin.  Reaches for the trigger...  And stops.  
Remembers.  Maybe there's a way out.

He moves to the SMALL DOOR leading to the CRAWLSPACES under the compound--the 
series of tunnels.  He has difficulty opening it, so takes the familiar ALL-
IN-ONE TOOL from his pocket and uses it to jimmy open the latch.  He manages 
to open it and sticks the tool in his mouth to get it out of the way.  He 
climbs in and shuts the hatch just as the Hemocytes CRASH through from the 
garage.


INT.  CRAWLSPACE - NIGHT

Pitch black.  Neville cannot see his hand in front of his face.  He slithers 
toward a SLIVER OF ORANGE LIGHT at the end of the tunnel.  He grasps the 
shotgun tight.  He LISTENS to the FOOTSTEPS of the Hemocytes on the surface 
above him.  Their HOWLS, SCREECHES, and CRIES.  The incessant DRUMMING in the 
distance...  Dear god, make it stop.

His eyes grows weary, his fingers lose their grip on the gun.  Passing out.  
Like a protagonist in Poe, he is virtually buried alive.  Just as he succumbs 
to the effects of the drug, darkness turns to LIGHT.  Orange light from the 
flares in the sky.  Neville senses what is coming.  Someone has opened the 
trap door.  Someone has found his hiding place.  Neville's eyes open to see 
the face of his discoverer...

Cortman.

                                             FADE OUT.

                                             FADE IN:

THE FOLLOWING IMAGES HAVE A DISTORTED, HALLUCINATORY FEEL:

Neville pulled from his grave, by dozens of clawed hands.  The shotgun ripped 
from his hands. His clothes torn from his body. Spite-filled faces.  
Shouting, cursing, spitting. Screeching with glee.  Barbed wire pulled from 
the fences, cutting into his flesh.  Cortman's talons teasing his throat.  
Anna.  Surrounded by Hemocytes.  They pay her no heed.  She walks among them 
untouched, unharmed.  Neville's face.  A tight grimace.  Clearly he is in 
pain...

                                             FADE OUT.

                                             FADE IN:


EXT.  COMPOUND - NIGHT

WE FOLLOW NEVILLE'S FACE, first surrounded by earth, then Hemocytes, then 
sky.  It's a disorienting effect.  We're not sure what's happening to him, 
and then, we REVEAL...

Neville lashed to a thick, long wooden pole.  Bound with rope, straps of 
leather.  And barbed wire.  He is virtually naked, his shorts affording him a 
minor degree of dignity.  His entire body is laced with scratches.  His face 
is battered and bruised.  They' ve been having fun with him.

The Hemocytes gathered at the base of the pole secure it to the ground.  
Cortman and his lieutenants stand before the tribe, displaying their prey.  
Showcasing the defeat and capture of the Devil.  Neville opens his eyes.  
Orange, red, and yellow.  The colors flicker and dance across his face.  
Sweat beads on his forehead from intense heat.

                    CORTMAN
          Everything You held so dear...

REVEAL NEVILLE'S HOUSE.  In flames.  A black shell roaring like a furnace.  
The Hemocytes watch it with awe.  They lustily dance and scream with joy.  
Cortman climbs the pole until he can whisper into Neville's ear...

                    CORTMAN
          What does it mean now?  Anything?

Neville turns away.  Cortman holds his head in place, forcing him to watch.  
Cortman touches Neville's neck with a talon.

                    CORTMAN
          Your life--as you know it--is over.

Cortman SCRATCHES Neville's neck with his talon.  A thin line of blood begins 
to flow.  Cortman drinks.  Neville tolerates the savage act--no more no less.  
He stares at his home as it crumbles into a fiery heap.


EXT.  SURROUNDING AREA - NIGHT

The long pole, with Neville at the end in the dirt, is dragged through the 
street.  The object of public humiliation.  The Hemocytes crowd around him, 
kicking, laughing, spitting, occasionally scratching him with a claw.  It's a 
celebration for them.  A time to rejoice.

Each bump on the terrain causes the barbed wire to scrape across Neville's 
skin.  He's in agony, but his face remains tight, unemotional, betraying 
nothing.  Giving nothing.  They move down the hill, onto the main road--a 
brutal parade.


EXT.  SUBWAY ENTRANCE - NIGHT

The pole is moved hand-by-hand along a staircase leading into the subway 
tunnels.  As Neville is passed along, he sees dozens of Hemocyte faces.  Some 
laughing, some screeching with anger, others terrified to look at "it", at 
the Devil.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

It's dark down here, but moonlight filters in through crumbled streets, open 
sewers and transoms, casting this netherworld in an odd purple glow.  Alien.  
Cortman leads the parade down the tracks to a ROUNDABOUT, a large open area 
where many tracks meet.  It is multi-levelled, the "ground", having been 
excavated to REVEAL old layers of the city. Dormant relics of San Francisco's 
past.  It is here where Cortman's tribe lives.  This is "home."  Their 
village.

As Neville is pulled, dragged, and thrown into it, he SEES more HEMOCYTES 
here than ever came to his house.  They huddle en masse, fearful of the 
captive demon.

There is a decor to the underground Hemocyte village, a style, a sense of 
culture.  The GRAFFITI is more than tribal markings.  It exhibits a passion, 
a unique sensibility.  Art.  The dwelling spaces, the clothing, the makeshift 
"architecture"--there is something developing here.  Not human, not what we 
once regarded as human, but something cultural.  A new development.  
Artistically, aesthetically.  Revolutionary.  Evolutionary.

In the center of the roundabout, in a circular forum (the "town square"), 
Neville and the pole are raised and presented to the people of the village.  
The Hemocytes gather around Neville, hundreds of them.  Chanting, drumming, 
screeching, hissing.  All eyes on the demon before them.

CORTMAN takes his place at what must be the leader's post, a pedestal/throne 
on which he stands and addresses the assembled.  He raises his arms and the 
Hemocytes give him quiet.  Cortman raises a finger and points at Neville.

                    CORTMAN
          Behold the Beast.  No longer mighty.  
          No longer unconquerable No longer an 
          icon of fear.  No longer a spirit to haunt 
          the minds and souls of our children. 
          (to the women) Bring them.  
          Let them see this Neville now.

The crowd parts and the WOMEN bring forth something Neville never imagined...

HEMOCYTE CHILDREN.  Offspring.

Dozens of them.  Two and three years old.  The mothers hold the newborns and 
toddlers in their arms.  High atop the pole, Neville cannot believe it.  His 
expression is a mixture of sadness, terror, and guilt.  Children!

                    CORTMAN
          Look at them Neville.  How many of their 
          fathers have you killed?  Their mothers?  
          How many families did you destroy?

The children look at him with fear and revulsion.

                    CORTMAN
          How arrogant you were.  Arrogant in your 
          righteousness.  To be so convinced that: you 
          were doing God's work, that you were his 
          avenging angel.  The defender of faith.  A faith 
          in humanity.  But what became of humanity, Neville? 
          It was struck down.  Smote by God. But you. 
          You cling to the belief that we are the abomination.  
          Did it ever enter your mind, did you ever consider... 
          that we are the chosen?  That we are the future?

Cortman lifts one of the children into his arms.

                    CORTMAN
          You are an illusion, Neville.  
          You mean nothing.

Cortman raises his hand.  A talon emerges from his fingertip.  He makes a 
delicate CUT in Neville's ankle and catches the flowing blood in the palm of 
his hand.  Forming a "cup," he brings his hand to the lips of the CHILD in 
his arms.

                    CORTMAN
          Drink, son.

The child's lips touch the blood.  Cortman lowers the boy to the ground and 
he scampers off to join his friends.

                    CORTMAN
          Don't be frightened of them, Neville. 
          Look beyond your own ideas and see 
          their beauty.  Their souls.

The Hemocyte children stare at the "monster."  Neville finds himself drawn to 
their faces. odd and ghoulish, yes, but possessing the innocence of all 
children.

Cortman signals to a group of WARRIORS who THROW long ropes into the rafters 
of the roundabout.  Near the ceiling, OTHER WARRIORS catch the lines, loop 
them over steel beams and slip them back to their counterparts at ground 
level.  These warriors tie one end of the ropes to the top of the pole.

As they work, EVA shoves ANNA into the circle.  Kicks her until she's 
kneeling at Cortman's feet.  He cups her chin in his hand and, as if to kiss 
her, lifts her to his face.

                    CORTMAN
          Such a pretty thing.
               (to Neville)
          Did she played the temptress well?  
          Did she Neville?  Were you seduced?

Anna violently breaks away from him.

                    ANNA
               (spitefully)
          Where's Ethan?

                    CORTMAN 
          Ethan?

                    ANNA
          Where is he?

Cortman signals to a Hemocyte NURSE who enters a dwelling space and returns 
carrying a SMALL BOY in her arms.  He is pale and thin, but not from 
infection.  The boy--ETHAN--is barely conscious, NEEDLE MARKS line his bony 
arms and legs.

Anna runs to the Nurse and takes the boy into her arms, clutching him to her 
breast with love and desperation.

                    ANNA
          Hey, baby brother.

He musters a smile for her, then drifts back to slumber.  Anna examines the 
marks on his arms, turns to Cortman...

                    ANNA
          You said you'd stop!

                    CORTMAN
          When you returned, yes. (re Neville)
          When he was defeated, yes.

Atop the pole, Neville watches the scene play in front of him.  His eyes stay 
fixed on Anna, on Ethan.

                    ANNA
          Well there he is!  I did what you asked!

                    CORTMAN
          And now you wish to go.

                    ANNA
          That was the bargain.

                    CORTMAN
          Where will you go, Anna?  What will 
          you find? (re Neville) More like him?  
          Pathetic reminders of the past?  Leading 
          paranoid, delusional lives?  Stay.  
          You serve a purpose here.  
          You've been treated well.

                    ANNA
          Well?  Treated well?

She attempts to exit the circle, but every way she turns, her path is blocked 
by Hemocytes.  She pulls Ethan tight, tries to force her way past them, but 
the Hemocytes sneer and laugh.  The NURSE GRABS ETHAN from her and she 
SCREAMS...

                    ANNA
          NOOOOOO!!!!!!!!!

She lunges for him, but EVA comes up from behind and stops Anna with an 
immobilizing hold.  Anna bellows at Cortman...

                    ANNA
          YOU PROMISED!

                    CORTMAN
          Silly thing.  We need you here.  
          We need you to breed.

Anna SCREAMS as Eva forces her to the ground and binds her arms and ankles 
with leather straps.  Anna fights her with fury, but Eva is too strong an 
opponent.  Once Anna is bound, Eva hefts her and carries up a staircase to a 
higher level of the multi-tiered village.  The Nurse follows with Ethan.

Simultaneously, Neville is LIFTED into the air as the Hemocyte Warriors PULL 
on the ropes.  Their purpose is to raise him above the village, for all to 
view.  A living totem.  As Neville ascends, he can SEE the cavernous room 
into which the Hemocytes take Anna and her little brother.

REVEAL THE ROOM

It is filled with filthy beds.  Lit by CANDLES.  Inside, the Hemocyte NURSES 
tend to the room's INHABITANTS...

DOZENS OF HUMANS.  The elderly and infirm, on one side, youngsters on the 
other.  The children invoke the most empathy.  Anywhere from three to twelve 
in years, they lie bound.  I.V.s of MORPHINE or SEDATIVES feed into their 
arms.  Some of the Nurses FEED the captives a horrible gruel while others 
DRAW BLOOD. Collecting it from open wounds, pouring it into large bowls and 
dishes.

Neville's eyes are filled with shock, anger, and sadness.  Food.  He locks at 
Cortman with disgust.  Ascending a staircase as Neville is lifted higher into 
the air, Cortman explains to his prize...

                    CORTMAN
          Savagery gives way to civilization.  
          It's a necessary step for us.  Fewer of 
          your kind remain and if we feast on each 
          other, or others like us--we cannot survive.  
          For a race to thrive it must not cannibalize 
          itself.  Therefore, we raise our sustenance.  
          Nurture it, let it grow.  Allow it to multiply.

Neville wants to berate Cortman, but his lips are sealed.  His mouth remains 
tight.

                    CORTMAN
          No harsh words, Neville?  
          No condemnations?  I'm disappointed.

IN THE CAVERNOUS ROOM, Anna is bound to a rusty cot.  Ethan to a small bed.  
Both are quickly narcotized.  Subdued.

Neville hangs his head in despair as his body is lifted into the rafters.  
The Hemocytes below secure the ropes to the ground.  Neville hangs above the 
village.  For all to see.  No possible means of escape.

Cortman stands on a ledge high above the village, addresses the throng, and 
points to Neville.

                    CORTMAN
          Here he is and here he will stay.

Cortman LEAPS into the air and GRABS HOLD of a PIPE near the pole.  Hanging 
with one hand, he extends the other, allows his talons to extend, and SLASHES 
the soles of Neville's feet.  Neville GRIMACES in pain, but won't allow 
Cortman the pleasure of a scream.  BLOOD begins to flow and drip from 
Neville's soles.  The crimson drops fall...

Onto the tongues, into the mouths of the Hemocytes below.  Like children 
catching the first snowflakes of winter.

                    CORTMAN
          DRINK CHILDREN!  
          Drink the blood of the fallen!

Eva leads the Hemocytes in a SCREECH of support.  Far below, not joining in 
the bacchanalia, is the leader of the Hemocyte Clerics, CHRISTOPHER.  His 
eyes are on Neville.  Does he betray a note of sympathy?  He looks away and 
signals the DRUMMERS to take up a victorious rhythm.

Dangling above his enemies--now his captors--Neville's chin drops to his 
chest.  From the battle, the beating, the humiliation, the defeat--he is 
beyond weary.  His eyelids droop, his jaw relaxes.  He catches himself and 
grinds his teeth together, keeping his mouth closed tight. Why?

He has not said a word since the fight at the house. 
Why?

INT.  SUBTERRANEAN VILLAGE MORNING

Well, yes, it is "morning", but there's no way to tell down here, aside from 
a few pinholes of early morning light peeping through a crack or crevice on 
the surface.

On the various layers of the community, we find the Hemocytes exhausted.  
From fighting, from celebration, from feasting.  They prepare for sleep, 
huddled together like pups.

High above them, strapped to the pole, Neville gently swings, the ropes 
creaking.  He's fighting to stay awake.  Above him on the catwalk of pipes, 
ventilation ducts, steel girders, and old electrical cables, appears 
CHRISTOPHER.  He appears calm and serene--not a threat.  He approaches 
Neville until he's only a few feet away, eye-to-eye.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          You don't remember me, do you?

Neville doesn't know what the hell he's talking about.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          I was a student of yours.  At the University.

Neville is stunned.  Assesses the man's face.  Tries to imagine what he 
looked like before infection.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Christopher Collier. I was a theology major. 
          I minored in history--I took your class on 
          Ancient Conflicts.  As a seminarian, I appreciated 
          your focus on moral issues in war.  
          What will they make of this, Professor?
           The historians of the future?  How will they 
          see the events of today?  A victory or defeat?  
          You don't care to comment?  You were always 
          quite eloquent in your opinions.

Neville looks in the direction of the room containing the humans.  
Christopher follows his gaze, comments...

                    CHRISTOPHER
          "In every war, in every great struggle, we see 
          the sacrifice of innocents.  Are their lives worth it?  
          If thousands will live, should we allow a handful 
          to die?"  Your words, Professor, not mine.  
          Your questions.  If I recall, you never provided 
          us an answer.

He turns back to Neville.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          I was never ordained.  As a priest:.  But I have 
          a flock.  A barbaric one, yes, but we are unified, 
          we are strong.  Does it surprise you to see us as 
          such?  As something more than monsters?

Neville remains quiet.  Christopher reaches into his clothes and uses a damp 
rag to wash Neville's wounds.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Some of us are not without compassion. 
          Some of us saw Cortman's pursuit of your defeat 
          a pointless, selfish obsession.  He wants you kept alive.
          He always wanted you like this, don't you see?
          He wants a trophy.  A living symbol of his strength.
          He'll bleed you, feed from you, have you father more 
          like yourself.

He lifts a container of gruel.  Brings a spoonful to his lips, but Neville 
refuses to eat.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          You're behaving like a child.

Christopher tries to force feed him, but Neville spits out the food and 
SNARLS at Christopher.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Fine...  Have it your way.  Soon, you'll be 
          begging for my kindness.

He departs down a staircase to the village.

CLOSE ON NEVILLE'S FACE

He waits until Christopher is gone.  Looks below and sees the Hemocytes 
sleeping.  And he opens his mouth, REVEALING...

The all-in-one tool.

His tongue and inner cheeks are scratched and bleeding, but he managed to 
keep it safe.  All this time.  Very carefully, he pushes it out onto his lips 
with his tongue then clenches it tight in his teeth.  He maneuvers his hand 
through his bonds and extends his fingers...

He only has one chance.  Takes a deep breath and spits out the tool. It 
falls...  Nearly slips from his fingers, but he snares it between his second 
and third fingers.  Twists it around until it's safe in his palm.  By touch 
he finds the serrated edge and goes to work on his bonds.


INT.  SUBTERRANEAN VILLAGE - TWO HOURS LATER - DAY

The Hemocytes are fast asleep.  Communal slumber appears to be part of their 
regimen.

THE RAFTERS

Sweat dripping from his brow, Neville works diligently.  His right hand 
already free, he releases the left.  Using the bonds around his waist as a 
fulcrum, he leans over stretching his back as far as it can go, and cuts 
through the ropes around his legs and ankles.  The serrated edge of the all-
in-one tool is almost smooth from wear.  Neville clenches it between his 
teeth and proceeds to wriggle out of the remaining bonds and barbed wire, 
causing the POLE to SWAY...

BELOW, where the pole is secured to the ground, the ROPES start to CREAK. A 
dozing Hemocyte sniffs the air, then returns to sleep.

ABOVE, Neville grips an overhead pipe and PULLS himself up, out of bondage.  
The ropes burn his skin and the barbed wire bites, but he makes it up, into 
the rafters.  Lying atop a ventilation duct, he relaxes and breathes deeply.  
He peers over the side and looks below.  Everyone asleep.  His eyes stop on 
the CAVERNOUS CHAMBER where the humans are kept.  Where Anna is kept.

He rolls away and slithers along the duct, away from the village.  Must be 
quiet.  Absolutely quiet.  He moves onto a thick roll of electrical cables 
and...  almost falls!  He grabs a cable and PULLS HIMSELF UP to safety.  
Crawling on his hands and knees, he moves toward an entrance to a subway 
tunnel.  Almost there...

And he slips.  Neville braces himself, but must use one of his wounded FEET 
to do so.  He HOWLS in silent pain.

And the tool falls from his mouth.

IT SAILS DOWN.  WE FOLLOW IT as it LANDS inches away from the face of a 
HEMOCYTE CHILD.  The little creature's EYES OPEN and find the odd piece of 
metal.

IN THE RAFTERS, Neville knows he must move quickly.  He follows the cables, 
then drops to a concrete ledge.  Although the souls of his feet are tender 
from the cuts, he must stand, he must walk.  He takes a few genteel steps, 
then overcomes the pain and heads for the tunnel.

He stops when he SEES the HEMOCYTE CHILD before him.  Just staring at him.  
She is afraid, yes, but her curiosity supersedes fear.  The little Hemocyte 
girl cocks her head and her eyes find an open cut on Neville's torso.  The 
blood.  Like a father with a glass of warm milk, he dips a finger into the 
blood and offers it to the girl.  She cautiously, hesitantly licks it up and 
of all things, smiles at Neville.

He looks at the girl's face.  The innocence in her smile, the simplicity, the 
naturalness of her act.  She's hungry.  Neville gently touches her head.

                    NEVILLE
               (whispers)
          Go back to sleep, sweetheart.

She obeys.  Neville watches as she returns to her flock.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - DAY

Weak, battered, filthy, and barely clothed, Neville forces himself down the 
tunnel.  A few RAYS OF LIGHT poke through from the surface, but they are GREY 
AND MISTY.  WATER drips through the ceiling of the tunnel--it must be 
raining.


EXT.  CITY STREET - DAY

A torrential downpour.  In the middle of the water-slicked street, the 
ventilation grating to a subway shaft is punched up and out.  NEVILLE crawls 
out to the surface and lies on his back, allowing the rain to wash over him.  
Freedom.


EXT  COMPOUND - DAY

The sky is filled with THUNDERCLOUDS.  Rain turns the earth into a blanket of 
mud.  Neville plods through the muck, cold and wet, until he arrives at the 
site of his house.  Stops when he sees what little remains...

A BLACK SHELL.  Foundation and framework.  Charred and crumbling.  Debris, 
ash, and cinders litter the area.  The rain creates a hissing cloud of steam 
and smoke.

Neville sloshes through the mud and shifts through debris, finding charred 
reminders of the past three years--the books, his paintings, CDs, the 
exhaustive videotapes.  Now all a melted mass of paper, plastic, and metal.

He finds a pair of shoes and joyously covers his scarred, throbbing feet.  
Nearby, in a pile of cinders, is the frame for the photo of his wife and 
child.  The glass cracked, the frame scorched, the picture itself burned 
away.

He moves down, into the foundation, into the BASEMENT.  Most of the weapons 
are twisted and burned, a few are functional.  He takes essentials--two 
handguns and a mini machine gun.
Searches for usable ammunition and thankfully finds a locker full untouched 
by fire.  In a pile of ash, he discovers the COMBAT KNIFE and ankle sheath.

IN THE GARAGE, he finds shelter from the rain.  The Land Rover is a junk 
heap, horribly wrecked by fallen timbers.  He finds a long pipe and uses it 
as a crowbar to open the trunk.  Inside is a pair of COVERALLS and, 
unscathed, an EMERGENCY KIT.  He slips into the coveralls, opens the kit, and 
checks his supplies--freeze-dried food, a tool kit, medical supplies, a 
flashlight, and batteries.  It's enough.  Enough to start over.

He checks the sports car--wrecked.  Next, the MOTORCYCLE.  Thanks to the 
lucky placement of a fallen sheet of corrugated steel, it survived.  He 
tosses off the metal and pulls out the bike.  It's smoke-damaged, scorched, 
and a few of the hoses are melted, but it will work.  He can get it to work.


EXT.  COMPOUND - DAY - AN HOUR LATER

The RAIN still batters the earth's surface.  THUNDER AND LIGHTNING coming in 
from the Pacific.  Neville has fashioned a pair off makeshift saddlebags and 
a gun rack on the bike.  He climbs aboard the motorcycle and tries to start 
it.  No go the first time, but the second...

The bike's engine ROARS to life.  He checks the gas gauge--a full tank.  
Enough to get 
him...  Where?  Where Bob?  Who knows?  He plows through the mud...


EXT.  STREETS OF SAN FRANCISCO - VARIOUS - DAY

The bike SPEEDS through the abandoned metropolis.  Neville's eyes are 
straight ahead.  
No looking back.


EXT.  GOLDEN GATE BRIDGE - DAY

Neville reaches the entrance to the bridge and pulls off onto a promontory--
where tourists used to stop and take pictures.  He comes to a stop, but keep 
the engine running.  He looks down the length of the bridge, at the ocean, 
back at the city.  His eyes find the LIGHTHOUSE where he set free the dog.  
The TUGBOAT at the end of the pier.

The ocean is rough, waves break on the shoreline.  STORM CLOUDS gather in 
number and force.  RAIN pounds down on him.  Neville assesses it all.  
Everything.  Past, present, future.

And knows what he must do.


EXT.  ABANDONED CHEMICAL PLANT - DAY

Somewhere in an industrial section of the city.


INT.  CHEMICAL PLANT - DAY

Neville walks down an aisle, machine gun in hand, flashlight searching the 
LARGE BINS to his left and right.  Into three plastic Containers, he fills 
PHOSPHOR, SULFUR, and MAGNESIUM.


EXT.  CONSTRUCTION SUPPLY YARD - DAY 

Virtually picked clean.


INT.  CONSTRUCTION SUPPLY YARD - DAY

Neville breaks into a small office.  Searches until he finds PIPES, BLASTING 
CAPS and DEMOLITION EXPLOSIVES.


INT.  SUBWAY SWITCHING YARD - DAY

An elephant's graveyard of SUBWAY TRAINS.  Above, RAIN pours through the 
cracked and broken SKYLIGHT.


INT.  SWITCHING YARD - CONTROL ROOM - DAY

In what used to be the "nerve center" for the city's Underground transit 
system, Neville scrutinizes a SERIES OF MAPS, all detailing the routes and 
layouts of the subway system.  To his right is a MANUAL, flipped open to a 
page reading "EMERGENCY POWER SUPPLIES--START-UP PROCEDURES."


INT.  SWITCHING YARD - GENERATOR ROOM - DAY

Neville primes lines, checks circuits, hits igniters.  He reaches the final 
switch, says a prayer, and THROWS IT...

The yard lights up like a christmas tree.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - DAY

Neville sits in the motorman's compartment, reading another MANUAL, munching 
on freeze-dried food.  He starts up the engine and miraculously, the motor 
comes to life.


INT.  SWITCHING YARD - DAY

The LEAD CAR, towing THREE PASSENGER CARS, pulls onto the main track and 
comes to a stop.


INT. SWITCHING YARD - CONTROL ROOM - DUSK

Like a kid with his first model train set, Neville checks the maps and plots 
a course on the "big board" detailing the lines throughout the city.  He 
throws a series of switches and the SOUND of rails and tracks being put in 
place REVERBERATES throughout the tunnels and yard.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN

In the lead car, Neville mixes the CHEMICALS into the pipes and attaches the 
blasting caps.  Once a half dozen pine bombs are complete, he checks and 
loads each of his guns.


INT.  SWITCHING YARD

Neville steps into the yard and looks up, through the skylight...  Night. 
They'll be awake.  And angry.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Neville climbs into the motorman's compartment and lays out a MAP of the 
tunnel system.
A course plotted.  He looks into the tunnel before him...  Into the belly of 
the beast.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

The TRAIN GROANS down the tracks.  Rusting, creaking, it starts to breathe, 
remembering the rhythm of the rails...


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

A look of grim determination on his face, Neville accelerates, further into 
the tunnel.


INT.  hemocyte VILLAGE - NIGHT

The empty pole is lowered into the center of the village.  A FURIOUS CORTMAN 
bellows orders to Eva and her warriors...

                    CORTMAN
          FIND HIM!

A STRANGE SOUND- Everyone HEARS it.  A SCREECHING.  A RUMBLING.  The walls of 
the village shake.  Children run frightened to the shelter of their mothers' 
arms.


INT.  VILLAGE - CAVERNOUS ROOM - NIGHT

Strapped down, in a weakened state, ANNA HEARS the SOUND, too.  It's a 
familiar sound.  No, it couldn't be...


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

The TRAIN ROARS down the tracks.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Neville at the controls, pushing the machine forward. 


INT.  HEMOCYTE VILLAGE - NIGHT

Eva and a few Warriors run to the center TRACK.  She presses her ear to the 
rail and cannot believe what she hears.  She looks to Cortman with 
astonishment...

He knows what's coming...

                    CORTMAN
          Neville.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Neville peers through the motorman's window.  There's the village, dead 
ahead.  He HITS THE BRAKES...


INT.  HEMOCYTE VILLAGE - NIGHT

The TRAIN BURSTS through a pile of debris, flattening a few Hemocyte warriors 
and SCREECHES to a stop.  Thirty, fifty descend upon the lead car.

A passenger door HISSES open and out steps Neville.  And his machine gun.  He 
OPENS FIRE, cutting through the attackers.  He HEAVES the first PIPE BOMB...

IT EXPLODES WITH WHITE LIGHT.  Not a damaging blast, but the CHEMICALS BURN 
with a WHITE HOT INTENSITY.  He throws another, and another, and another.  
Soon the center area is bathed in a BRILLIANT GLOW.

The light blinds the Hemocytes.  They SCREECH and run for cover.  More 
significantly, the sight of Neville terrifies them.  For many of them, it's 
as if the Devil has been resurrected and he's come for retribution.  Mothers 
lead children into the rafters, nurses and clerics pray and flee.

                    CORTMAN
          NO!  NO!

Eva and the Warriors will fight.  If they could only see.  Blindly, they move 
toward the train.  Neville tosses a BOMB at the base of the stairs, clearing 
a path.  He grabs two bombs and RUNS, firing the machine gun only when 
necessary.  He throws a tackle into a Hemocyte Warrior, uses the butt of the 
gun on another, and makes it up the stairs.


INT.  CAVERNOUS ROOM - NIGHT

Neville BURSTS into the space, brandishing his weapon.  It's Nurses and 
Clerics in here, and they're petrified.  They HISS and SCREECH, but they're 
not the fighting type.

Neville searches bed after bed.  Children. old men, wrinkled women.  Glassy-
eyed, empty faces.  And then he finds Anna.  He kneels beside her bed and 
rips out the I.V. 
Not completely drugged, her sad eyes find his and search for compassion, for 
understanding.

Neville pulls out the combat knife...

... and hurriedly cuts through her bonds.

                    NEVILLE
          Can you walk?

                    ANNA
          I think so...

He hands her a GUN.

                    NEVILLE
          Take this.

Neville frees her brother.  Anna takes Ethan in her arns and hugs him dearly.  
Neville frees another CHILD, and ANOTHER.  They're somewhat conscious and 
stumble to their feet.

                    NEVILLE
          We have to go.

                    MAN'S VOICE
          Neville.

Neville turns, ready with the machine gun...  It's Christopher.  Neville 
hesitates.  Finger on the trigger...

                    CHRISTOPHER
          Take the children.  The others are too
          weak.  You'll never make it.

TALONS emerge from Christopher's fingertips.  And he SLICES the bonds of 
another child.  Neville lowers the gun.

                    CHRISTOPHER
          We shall have to find another way.

Neville, Anna, and Christopher free the children.  About a dozen in total. 
HEMOCYTE WARRIORS appear at the door.

Neville sees them and ROLLS a PIPE BOMB right at them.  It EXPLODES, sending 
them flying and flaming into the air.  The room CATCHES FIRE.  Neville lifts 
a WEAK CHILD into his arms and heads for the stairs.  Anna urges the children 
to follow.


INT.  HEMOCYTE VILLAGE - NIGHT

The area is still bathed in phosphorescent glow.  Neville THROWS another 
BOMB, again clearing a path.  He and Anna usher the children past BLINDED 
HEMOCYTES into the train.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Neville and Anna lie the children on passenger seats in the second and third 
cars.  When Neville opens the door to the third, he comes face-to-face with a 
HEMOCYTE WARRIOR.
Although unable to see, the creature fiercely latches onto Neville.  The 
children SHRIEK.  The machine gun falls from Neville's grasp and he struggles 
to reach a handgun in his belt.  The Hemocyte raises his talons...

BLAM!  Anna fells him with a single shot to the heart.  Neville pushes the 
body out of the train and seals the doors.  As Anna secures the children, 
Neville runs to the motorman's booth.  As the glow from the bombs diminishes, 
Hemocytes storm the train.  As their angry fists POUND against the windows, 
Neville gets the train the hell out of there.


INT.  HEMOCYTE VILLAGE - NIGHT

A FIRE RAGES in the cavernous room.  Christopher and a few others manage to 
flee... The HEMOCYTE CHILDREN huddle in the dark, terrified by the nightmare, 
hiding from the bogeyman.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

The TRAIN ROARS away from the village.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Anna makes her way to Neville and, weak, collapses.  He catches her and sits 
her on a bench.

                    NEVILLE
          How do you feel?

                    ANNA
          I'll be fine.

                    NEVILLE
               (re the children)
          Are they okay?

She nods.

                    ANNA
          They think it's a dream.

He smiles.  Returns to the motorman's station.

                    ANNA
          Robert?

He turns to her.

                    ANNA
          Thank you.


INT.  SUBWAY TUNNEL - NIGHT

As the train RUSHES down the tunnel, REVEAL CORTMAN. On the roof of the lead 
car.  EVA and a MUSCULAR WARRIOR atop the passenger cars.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

We HEAR a window SHATTER and the SCREAMS of children.  Neville and Anna 
REACT. He grabs the MACHINE GUN, loads a fresh clip and positions Anna at the 
controls.

                    NEVILLE
          Just keep your foot here, your hand on
          this.  Let the train do the rest.

FOLLOW NEVILLE as he MOVES into the rear car.  Standing there is the MUSCULAR 
WARRIOR.  The children huddle in fear in a far corner.  The Muscular Hemocyte 
RUNS toward Neville.  Neville SHOOTS, but this guy is big and rushing on 
blood. He keeps coming.  Neville calls to the children...

                    NEVILLE
          Get in the next car, THE NEXT CAR!

The children MOVE to Car No. 2.  Neville empties the clip, but the Hemocyte 
grins and moves in for the kill.  Neville PULLS OUT the last PIPE BOMB and 
lobs it at the Hemocyte...

                    NEVILLE
          Say good-bye.

Neville DIVES.  The BOMB EXPLODES inches in front of the Muscular Hemocyte, 
igniting him and the car in BRIGHT WHITE FIRE.  In the second car, Neville 
attempts to calm and quiet the distraught children, but when he HEARS GLASS 
CRASH and ANNA SCREAM, he tells them...

                    NEVILLE
          Stay here.  Don't move.

IN THE LEAD CAR, Neville finds EVA cradling ETHAN in her arms.  CORTMAN holds 
a struggling ANNA from behind, his TALONS at her throat.  Although still 
moving damn fast, with no one at the controls, the train is losing speed.  
Neville raises the machine gun, but Cortman can only sneer...

                    CORTMAN
          Put that wretched thing down.

Cortman's talon presses into Anna's flesh.  Neville lowers the weapon.  
Cortman gestures to the smashed open window.

                    CORTMAN
          Lose it.

Neville complies and throws the machine gun away.

                    CORTMAN
          On your knees.

                    NEVILLE 
          No.

                    CORTMAN
          On your knees, Neville, and beg for her life.  
          Do it, or she'll watch her brother die quite 
          painfully.

Eva HISSES.  Neville looks at Cortman with contempt.  What's that?  Just past 
Cortman and Anna, over their shoulders, through the front window of the 
train...  Is it...? 
Light at the end of the tunnel.  Neville goes to one knee.

                    CORTMAN
          Do it.

Neville drops to the other.

                    NEVILLE
          Cortman?  Do you pray?

                    CORTMAN
          Pray?

                    NEVILLE
          If you don't, I would start.

Neville goes to floor and braces himself.  Cortman turns...  Through the 
front window, he SEES.  A THICK METAL DOOR.


EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The train CRASHES out of the tunnel, THROUGH the barrier, off the tracks, 
INTO the SAND, where it topples on its side,


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Neville, Anna, Cortman, Eva, the Children--all thrown out like rag dolls.  A 
SEAT becomes UNHINGED and SMACKS Neville in the skull and he drops.


EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The lead car SLIDES TO A STOP about ten feet into the ocean's edge.  WAVES 
CRASH against its hull.  RAIN pummels the beach.  THUNDER AND LIGHTNING fill 
the raging sky.


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

Chaos.  Children crying, smashed glass, twisted metal.  The boy Ethan gets 
his bearings and searches the car for his sister.  Anna is near the front of 
the car, crawling away from an apparently unconscious Cortman--his legs 
PINNED under smashed and twisted metal.  Also knocked out is Neville.

The lead car is sinking into the sand.  WATER rushes in and the car's 
flooding.  Ethan moves to his sister, but the way is BLOCKED by a battered, 
bloody EVA.  She HISSES at the boy.

                    ANNA
          Ethan!  Run!  Run and hide!

The boy knows to listen.  He crawls through to the beach.  Eva LUNGES for 
him, but a BULLET rips through her shoulder.

                    ANNA
          Hey bitch!

Eva SPINS to see Anna pointing a gun at her.

                    ANNA
          Leave my little brother alone.

Anna FIRES, unloading every bullet into Eva's chest.  Eva tries to press on, 
but the wounds are too severe.  She drops to her knees.  Her flesh tries to 
repair itself, but too much blood is lost and there's too much damage to the 
heart.  She hisses and dies.  Anna hurries to Neville.  She shakes him...

                    ANNA
          Robert!

Neville is out cold.

                    ANNA
          I need you!

Neville's eyes open.  She starts to help him to his feet when a WAVE CRASHES 
into the lead car and it SINKS DEEPER into the sand.  Anna SLIDES down the 
aisle, into the water.  He reaches, but she's gone.  Using the seats as a 
"ladder," Anna pulls herself out of the water.  She's nearly clear when...  
CORTMAN GRABS HER ANKLE.  Anna SCREAMS.  Cortman EMERGES from the water and 
draws a deep breath.  Anna struggles, but Cortman's grasp is tight.

Neville finds his COMBAT KNIFE, slides to them.  He SLASHES Cortman's arm, 
virtually severing it at the wrist.  Anna frees herself.  Neville pulls her 
out of the car...


EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The lead car SINKS deeper.  WATER FILLS the interior.  On the sand, Neville 
and Anna get to their feet and see the rest of the CHILDREN in the second 
car, WATER on one side, 
FIRE--from the burning third car--on the other.

He and Anna run to the car and help the panicked, crying children from the 
wreckage.  Neville lifts a helpless child into his arms and nods in the 
direction of the TUGBOAT.

                    NEVILLE
          Take them to the boat!


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

In the lead car, Cortman is drowning.  His hand dangles and blood forms a 
cloud in the rushing water.  He spies EVA'S BODY down the aisle.  He looks at 
her dead eyes.  The pool of blood around her.  Cortman closes his eyes...  
And wills the blood to him. 
It creeps down the floor, along the walls, to his TALONS.  He lifts the 
crimson to his lips and DRINKS.


EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

The rain is incessant.  The children cover at the thunder and lightning.  
Anna and Neville lead them down the PIER, to the TUGBOAT.  Two more children-
-too weak to walk--remain at the train wreck and Neville returns for them.  
Anna scans the faces of the others, searching for...

                    ANNA
          Ethan?


INT.  SUBWAY TRAIN - NIGHT

UNDERWATER, Cortman holds his hand to its split-open wrist.  The HAND FUSES 
to its former limb.  Muscles bulging from the feeding, Cortman LIFTS the 
twisted metal and frees his legs from the wreckage.  Eyes open wide, glowing 
with hate, he SWIMS through the cracked open windshield, into the ocean.


EXT.  BEACH - PIER - NIGHT

Neville returns to the boat with the last two children.  A panicked Anna 
meets him,

                    ANNA
          I can't find Ethan!

Neville scans the beach and CALLS OUT...

                    NEVILLE
          E-THAN!

A FLASH OF LIGHTNING illuminates the LIGHTHOUSE and NEVILLE SEES the BOY in 
the window, hiding.

                    NEVILLE
          He's in the lighthouse.  You stay. 
          (re the children) Watch them.  
          I'll be right back.  I promise.

He gives her the last gun and runs to the lighthouse.


INT.  LIGHTHOUSE - NIGHT

Neville climbs up the creaking staircase.  Ethan spots him and runs away, up 
the stairs.

                    NEVILLE
          No!  Ethan!  Wait!


EXT.  LIGHTHOUSE - NIGHT

Neville emerges from a maintenance door and steps onto the catwalk 
surrounding the pinnacle.  Atop the DOME of the lighthouse, painted into the 
sky, is a LIGHTNING ROD.  Neville sees it, keeps low, and calls out..

                    NEVILLE
          Ethan!

THUNDER AND LIGHTNING.  Followed by a child's whimpering.  Neville moves to 
it and finds Ethan cowering in a fetal position.  He cautiously kneels, 
gently extends his hand...

                    NEVILLE
          Please, Ethan, come with me.

With tear-filled eyes, the boy looks to Neville.

                    NEVILLE
          I won't let anyone hurt you.

Ethan slowly extends his hand.  Neville takes it, smiles, and lifts the boy 
into his arms.  He stands.  When he turns, he finds...  CORTMAN waiting for 
him.  Dripping wet, pumped up, eyes gleaming, teeth bared.

                    CORTMAN
          Hello Robert.

TALONS emerge from his fingers.

                    CORTMAN
          By now, we should use first names, don't
          you think? I'm Ben.

Neville steps back, away from Cortman, who calmly advances, the two men 
moving around the circular catwalk.

                    CORTMAN
          You're very resilient, I'll give you that.

Neville continues to back off, Cortman closing in...

                    CORTMAN
          Shouldn't you simply give in? Join the 
          rest of them? Die?

Neville glances to his left and sees what he wanted--the maintenance hatch.  
He quickly lowers Ethan and instructs...

                    NEVILLE
          Go to the boat!  Go to Anna!

The boy does as told and runs down the stairs.  Brandishing the COMBAT KNIFE, 
Neville turns to Cortman.

                    CORTMAN
          You're sentimental.  A weakness.

The two men face off.  Cortman makes the first move.  SLASHES at Neville's 
chest, RIPS through the coveralls and SCRAPES his flesh.  Neville LUNGES with 
the knife, but Cortman is swift and easily steps aside.  He LAUGHS.

                    CORTMAN
          You'll have to do better.


EXT.  BEACH - PIER - NIGHT

Ethan runs into Anna's arms.  She looks up at the lighthouse.

                    ANNA
          ROBERT!


EXT.  LIGHTHOUSE - CATWALK - NIGHT

Neville looks down at the boat, at Anna.  SHOUTS to her...

                    NEVILLE
          GO, ANNA!  GO NOW!

                    CORTMAN
          How noble.

Cortman SLASHES.  Neville ducks and crawls away.

                    CORTMAN
          Show some dignity.

Neville THRUSTS with the knife.  Cortman BLOCKS and the knife FALLS over the 
side, into the sea.  Cortman LAUGHS.  Pulls in his talons and proceeds to 
PUMMEL Neville with his fists.  Neville can barely defend himself.  He falls 
and pulls himself up.  Neville appears hopelessly doomed to defeat.  Cortman 
extends his TALONS and moves in...  Like a cat, Neville scurries up the 
lighthouse dome.  It's slippery, but he makes it to the very top, clinging to 
the lightning rod.

                    CORTMAN
          Please, Robert.  Where do you think
          you're going?

                    NEVILLE
          I don't know, Ben...

Neville stands and LEANS against the rod, using his weight to SNAP it free 
from its mooring.

                    NEVILLE
          But you can go to hell.

With the lightning rod extended like a spear, Neville slides down the dome 
and DRIVES IT STRAIGHT INTO CORTMAN'S HEART. Cortman HOWLS with pain.  His 
chest BURSTS with crimson. Blood gurgles from his throat and all he can 
mutter is...

                    CORTMAN
          No...!!!!!!!!!!!!

LIGHTNING FLASHES IN THE SKY.  In a split second, Neville JUMPS into the 
hatch.  Like the Hand of God, a BOLT OF LIGHTNING slashes across the night 
sky and touches the spike of metal in Cortman's chest.  The top of the 
lighthouse--and Cortman--
EXPLODES IN A BURST OF WHITE SPARKS.  Cortman's SCREAM ECHOES.  His scorched 
body falls into the ocean.


EXT.  BEACH - NIGHT

Anna waits at the boat.  Neville runs across the sand.  Although weak, his 
face is filled with joy.  She waited. Anna waited.  At this moment in time, 
he is happy.  It's all behind.  You can move forward.  He STOPS DEAD when he 
SEES...

A PACK OF WILD HEMOCYTE DOGS.  Waiting.  Six vicious creatures.  GROWLING.  
Hungry.  They circle Neville, waiting for the precise moment to move in for 
the kill.  A HARSH BARK stops them.  ANOTHER DOG runs from the forest and 
climbs atop a large rock.  THE LEADER.

Neville's dog.

The other dogs back off, intimidated.  Neville's dog runs across the sand, 
BARKING at his subordinates.  Tails between their legs, the others break into 
the forest.  Neville's dog--proud and strong--approaches his former master.

A look of recognition and understanding passes between them.

The dog looks to the boat, turns to Neville.  His eyes.  There's still 
something in the eyes.  The dog gently BARKS and steps aside, allowing 
Neville entry to the pier.  Neville walks on, breaks into a run, and falls 
into Anna's arms.

The dog observes, mournfully HOWLS and returns to the forest.


INT.  BOAT - NIGHT

The Children sit huddled under blankets, clinging to each other for warmth.  
Neville looks at them.  The next generation.  He STARTS the engine.  The 
storm is subsiding, the sea calm beyond the breakers.  Anna holds him and 
leans her head on his shoulder.

                    ANNA
          Where are we going?

Neville doesn't have an answer.  He just goes forward.  He moves the boat 
forward.


EXT.  OCEAN - DAWN

The tugboat passes under the Golden Gate Bridge.  Neville is oblivious to the 
physical pain in his body.  There's energy coming from him, a sense of 
purpose.

                    NEVILLE (V.O.)
          "Hell is oneself, Hell is alone, the other figures 
          in it merely projections.  There is nothing to 
          escape from and nothing to escape to.  
          One is always alone." (pause)  T.S. Eliot wrote that,
          and just yesterday, I might've agreed with him.  
          But I don't feel alone.  Not now.  I'm not escaping, 
          I'm changing.  I'm no longer trapped.  
          Not by Cortman, not by me.  I have hope. (pause) 
          I was born in Des Moines, Iowa in 1960.  
          I had a wife Ellen and a daughter Grace.  
          My name is Robert Neville.  I am legend.

He pulls Anna close and drinks in the sky.  The morning sun breaks through 
the clouds and lights a path to the future.

                                             FADE OUT.



