year	1982
imdb score	8.2
meta score	N/A
genre	Horror
genre	Mystery
genre	Sci-Fi
genre	Thriller
keyword	dog
keyword	helicopter
keyword	american
keyword	alien
keyword	norwegian
keyword	scientist
keyword	organism
keyword	pilot
keyword	alien life form
keyword	scientific research
keyword	chase
keyword	antarctica
keyword	paranoia
keyword	split head
keyword	computer
keyword	blood test
keyword	spacecraft
keyword	earth
keyword	murder
keyword	kicking in a door
keyword	excavation
keyword	computer chess
keyword	scalpel
keyword	red herring
keyword	flare
keyword	body horror
keyword	tentacle
keyword	quarantine
keyword	shot in the forehead
keyword	assimilation
keyword	exploding helicopter
keyword	disguise
keyword	finger cut
keyword	cardiopulmonary resuscitation
keyword	suicide
keyword	long tongue
keyword	snow
keyword	cult film
keyword	blood icicle
keyword	refrigerator
keyword	throat slitting
keyword	dragging a body
keyword	rec room
keyword	cult film
keyword	shape shifter
keyword	blood and guts
keyword	violence
keyword	surgical stitches
keyword	map
keyword	tied up
keyword	breaking through a door
keyword	cook
keyword	frozen body
keyword	exploding body
keyword	generator
keyword	ancient astronaut
keyword	characters killed one by one
keyword	pistol
keyword	blood
keyword	destruction
keyword	1980s
keyword	disfigurement
keyword	killing an animal
keyword	knife
keyword	biologist
keyword	reverse footage
keyword	lantern
keyword	gore
keyword	all male cast
keyword	fire alarm
keyword	isolation
keyword	anti hero
keyword	scientific group
keyword	transformation
keyword	tied to a chair
keyword	part stop motion
keyword	winter
keyword	flashlight
keyword	defibrillation
keyword	kerosene
keyword	box office flop
keyword	hand through chest
keyword	tunnel
keyword	weather
keyword	sabotage
keyword	gore
keyword	severed hand
keyword	silhouette
keyword	campsite
keyword	lighter
keyword	rifle
keyword	suspicion
keyword	drug use
keyword	flamethrower
keyword	dread
keyword	shotgun
keyword	noose
keyword	molotov cocktail
keyword	dead dog
keyword	gothic
keyword	blood sample
keyword	african american
keyword	shot in the leg
keyword	marijuana
keyword	ambiguous ending
keyword	arm cut off
keyword	flying saucer
keyword	imitation
keyword	suspense
keyword	alarm
keyword	morphine
keyword	radio
keyword	cigarette smoking
keyword	burned alive
keyword	vcr
keyword	sled dog
keyword	pool table
keyword	tractor
keyword	fire extinguisher
keyword	locked in a shed
keyword	doctor
keyword	title at the end
keyword	injection
keyword	corpse
keyword	smoking pot
keyword	video cassette
keyword	ice
keyword	hypodermic needle
keyword	explosion
keyword	held at gunpoint
keyword	beating
keyword	mutation
keyword	research station
keyword	shot to death
keyword	creature feature
keyword	axe
keyword	kennel
keyword	heart attack
keyword	infection
keyword	watching tv
keyword	stars
keyword	intestines
keyword	axe murder
keyword	controversy
keyword	trust
keyword	based on short story
keyword	electronic music score
keyword	trail of blood
keyword	shapeshifting
keyword	boarded up window
keyword	rampage
keyword	parasite
keyword	breaking through a wall
keyword	geologist
keyword	tentacles
keyword	fear
keyword	videotape
keyword	shed
keyword	metamorphosis
keyword	stitch
keyword	tape recorder
keyword	death
keyword	physician
keyword	power generator
keyword	remote
keyword	roller skates
keyword	blizzard
keyword	revolver
keyword	grenade
keyword	severed arm
keyword	sunglasses
keyword	distrust
keyword	unsubtitled foreign language
keyword	apocalypse
keyword	shot in the eye
keyword	person on fire
keyword	outer space
keyword	horror movie remake
keyword	human duplication
keyword	autopsy
keyword	playing pool
keyword	cowboy hat
keyword	power failure
keyword	dynamite
keyword	severed head
keyword	photograph
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	monster
keyword	remake
keyword	drinking
keyword	ping pong
keyword	tape recording
keyword	claw
keyword	death of friend
keyword	title spoken by character
keyword	
cast	Kurt Russell	R.J. MacReady
cast	Wilford Brimley	Dr. Blair
cast	T.K. Carter	Nauls
cast	David Clennon	Palmer
cast	Keith David	Childs
cast	Richard Dysart	Dr. Copper
cast	Charles Hallahan	Vance Norris
cast	Peter Maloney	George Bennings
cast	Richard Masur	Clark
cast	Donald Moffat	Garry
cast	Joel Polis	Fuchs
cast	Thomas G. Waites	Windows
cast	Norbert Weisser	Norwegian
cast	Larry J. Franco	Norwegian Passenger with Rifle
cast	Nate Irwin	Helicopter Pilot
cast	William Zeman	Pilot
cast	Adrienne Barbeau	Computer
cast	John Carpenter	Norwegian
cast	Jed	Dog Thing
