This script was transcribed by BJ Kuehl.  Any corrections
should be sent to her at bj@csd.uwm.edu.



                              1979

                         D R A C U L A

                              cast

      Count Dracula.........................Frank Langella
      Abraham Van Helsing.................Laurence Olivier
      Lucy Seward............................Kate Nelligan
      Mina Van Helsing.........................Jan Francis
      Dr. Jack Seward.....................Donald Pleasance
      Jonathan Harker...........................Trevor Eve
      Milo Renfield.......................................

                            SUNDOWN
                     A Schooner from Varna
        Seamen attempt to toss overboard a crate labeled
          'Count Dracula, Whitby, Yorkshire, England'
                  A wolf leaps from the crate

                           THAT NIGHT
                   Billabeck Hall Sanitorium
  Dr. Seward races through a ward of agitated mental patients

SEWARD:  Swales, for God sakes, give these poor wretches some
laudanum to calm their shattered nerves.

SWALES:  They won't take nothing, Dr. Seward.  I can't do
anything.

ANNIE:  Dr. Seward!  Dr. Seward, where's Miss Lucy?  Where's
Miss Lucy to help with my baby?

SEWARD:  Mrs. Callaway, where is my daughter?

CALLAWAY:  Miss Lucy's upstairs in the house, sir, looking after
that friend of hers.

LUCY:  How can she abandon us?  Swales, I'm coming down.

                         Lucy's Bedroom
                 Lucy and Mina prepare for bed

LUCY:  "...but anyway, you needn't worry.  As soon as you finish
law school, I'm sure our firm will hire you in a second."

MINA:  Hey!

LUCY:  "You will make a beautiful addition to the firm of
Snodgrass, Shilling and Wollop."

                The storm blows open the window

MINA:  Good Lord!  Is it all right?

LUCY:  Yes...yes.

MINA:  You know, Lucy, you're so much braver than I am...taking
on all those men like that.

LUCY:  But don't you think we ought to have some influence, some
say on things?  After all...

LUCY & MINA:  ...we are not chattels!

MINA:  No, I know we're not.

                      Enter Mrs. Callaway

CALLAWAY:  Lucy!

LUCY:  Yes?

CALLAWAY:  Your father says he needs you in the wards right away.

LUCY:  Yes, I'm coming.

                       Exit Mrs. Callaway

MINA:  Oh, do you have to go now Lucy?

LUCY:  Yes.  Into bed.

MINA:  All right.  Thank you.

LUCY:  Now remember, Mina.  If you don't rest, you'll be stuck
in this bedroom all winter.

MINA:  Yes, you're quite right.  You go down to them.  I'll be
fine.

LUCY:  Good night, darling.

MINA:  Good night.

                      The Sanitarium Ward
            Seward paces among the agitated patients
                           Enter Lucy

SEWARD:  Lucy, we've got our work cut out for us.

LUCY:  I'm sorry, poppa, but Mina isn't feeling at all well
tonight.

SEWARD:  I know she's our friend but really Mina's never feeling
very well.

LUCY:  Now father, that's not fair.  We invited her for her
health and we have to look after her.

                    Enter Annie and her baby

LUCY:  Oh, Annie, don't worry, I'll take him.  Let me take him,
darling.  There we are.  Oh,it can't be as bad as that.

                    Offstage:  Church bells

ANNIE:  Bells!

SEWARD:  What?  Bells?

ANNIE:  Hollow bells...listen.

SWALES:  Sunken bells!

SEWARD:  Sunken bells?  Are you mad, Swales?

LUCY:  It's just the church bells to warn the ships, that's all.

                         Lucy's Bedroom
        Mina, awakened by the bells, goes to the window,
    sees schooner about to beach and runs down to the beach
              A wolf jumps from the schooner deck
                Mina folows the wolf into a cave
           where she finds a man lying on the ground
                        She goes to him

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                           The beach
        Villagers remove items from the beached schooner

MAN:  That's it.  A little bit more. Come on, you two, get your
hands out of yur pockets.  No, no, no.  Tell them women to get
out of the way.

                   Jonathan Harker drives up

POLICE:  Sorry, no one allowed on board

HARKER:  I've got business on board.

POLICE:  What sort of business?

HARKER:  I'm a solicitor, Jonathan Harker, and I've been on the
road all night from London.

SEWARD:  Jonathan!  It's all right.  Let him pass.

POLICE:  Right.  Carry on.

SEWARD:  What the devil are you doing here?

HARKER:  Our firm was telegraphed yesterday that this ship had
been sighted a week early.  The man we represented in the
purchase of Carfax Abbey, Count Dracula...

SEWARD:  Count Dracula, of course!  How stupid of me!  I almost
forgot...

HARKER:  Is he safe?

SEWARD:...in all this...who?

HARKER:  Dracula!

SEWARD:  Oh, yes, he's the only one who is.  Young Mina found
him on the beach last night, and we took him to Carfax.  As for
the rest of the crew...look.

        Harker looks at sailor with his throat torn open

HARKER:  What happened?

SEWARD:  We don't know.  Maybe the ship's log will tell us.

                      Enter Harbourmaster

HARKER:  Excuse me, is all this cargo the Count's?

HARBOURMASTER:  Well, there's more down below. but the rest of
the crates broke up on them rocks.  Seems to be some kind of
dirt.

HARKER:  Dirt?  What for?

                         Enter Renfield

RENFIELD:  Whatever it is, I'll take it.  I'll put it on me
wagon.

HARBOURMASTER:  You can't do that, Renfield.  The Count's not
here to sign for them, and they stay here until he comes round
himself.

HARKER:  I'm sorry, harbourmaster, but the rights of this ship
are already completely sacrificed since the tiller of this
vessel is held in a dead hand.  Now, where's the rest of
Dracula's baggage?  I'd like to inspect that as well.

HARBOURMASTER:  Come this way.

RENFIELD:  Harker, you sold me house right out from under me,
and you sold that poor old Count a right bill of goods with your
fancy silver tongue!

SEWARD:  Renfield!

RENFIELD:  I've half a mind to tell Dracula he's been took good.

SEWARD:  Mr. Renfield, I wonder if I could impose upon you to
ask the Count when he rises if he would join us for dinner
tonight at Billabeck Hall?

RENFIELD:  What?  At the loony bin?

SEWARD:  At my home, Mr. Renfield!

RENFIELD:  Well, I'll give him the message but I don't think
he'll be in the mood for any fancy socializing.

                             LATER
                  The road from Billabeck Hall
               Lucy and Mina depart in a carriage
         while Harker and Seward arrive in Harker's car

LUCY:  Jonathan!  Thank God you're here.

                        Lucy hugs Harker

SEWARD:  There, there, that's enough of that.  Save that for
after you're married.

LUCY:  I can't tell you how dreadful it's been!  Mina went...

HARKER:  Slow down, Lucy, Lucy, Lucy, Lucy, Lucy, slow down.  I
had to come up here to meet your new neighbor.

LUCY:  It was terrifying!  Mina found him washed up on the
beach.  It's a miracle he's not dead.

HARKER:  God, you look lovely, Lucy!

LUCY:  I look dreadful.  I haven't been to bed all night.

                            SUNDOWN
                          Carfax Abbey
          Renfield drags crate of dirt into the Abbey
                Dracula rises from another crate

RENFIELD:  This is the last one and lucky for you cause I'm not
a bloody machine.

         Dracula changes into bat and flies at Renfield

                          THAT EVENING
                       The Seward Parlour
             Lucy, Mina, Seward, Harker and Swales
                   share drinks before dinner

SEWARD:  ...pushed along by the storm, no doubt.

HARKER:  No storm could have caused that captain's throat wound.
 I've never seen anything so ghastly.

LUCY:  Please, Jonathan, not before dinner.

HARKER:  Sorry.

MINA:  And Dr. Seward, that wolf or dog or whatever it was?

SEWARD:  A dog, I'm sure.  Probably the ship's mascot.

SWALES:  Early this morning, that big dog belonging to Dussman
were found dead as a doornail.  Had it's throat tored away.

HARKER:  Tore away?

SWALES:  Aye.  By some savage claw, they say.

                          Enter Butler
BUTLER:  Count Dracula.

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  Good evening.  Miss Seward.

SEWARD:  Good evening, Count.

DRACULA:  Dr. Seward.  Miss Van Helsing, my saviour.  I trust
you're feeling improved.

MINA:  Yes, thank you.

LUCY:  I don't think she looks well at all.

DRACULA:  Well, perhaps a trifle pale.

HARKER:  Count Dracula, we've haven't actually met.

SEWARD:  This is...

DRACULA:  Yes, Jonathan Harker, my new English solicitor.  I
have enjoyed our correspondence.

HARKER:  As I have, too, I must say.

DRACULA:  I must thank you for finding me an extraordinary house
here on Whitby.

HARKER:  It's a pleasure.

LUCY:  (laughs)  I'm sorry, but I don't see how anyone, except
possibly Milo Renfield, could spend even a day at Carfax Abbey.

DRACULA:  A house, Miss Seward, cannot be made habitable in a
day.  And, after all, how few days go to make up a century.

LUCY:  I'm sorry, I don't understand.

DRACULA:  I am of an old family.  To live in a new house would
be impossible for me.

                          Enter Swales

SWALES:  I've got dinner hot, if anybody cares.

HARKER:  I care, Mr. Swales.  Come on, Lucy.

                      Exit Harker and Lucy

SEWARD:  Come along, Count.  Food.

                          Exit Seward

DRACULA:  Miss Van Helsing?

                     Exit Mina and Dracula

                     The Seward Dining Room
   Seward, Lucy, Harker and Mina discuss the beached schooner
                          with Dracula

DRACULA:  It is difficult for me to express precisely, but there
seemed to be a doom over the ship from the moment we left Varna.

SEWARD:  Count, some wine?  You haven't...

DRACULA:  No, thank you, I never drink wine.

LUCY:  Before you arrived, we were looking at the ship's log.

DRACULA:  It wasn't lost at sea?

LUCY:  No.  The very last entry was a strange word, a word that
Mina thought meant 'undead'.

DRACULA:  Undead?

LUCY:  Yes.  'Nosferatu'.

DRACULA:  Ah, it means 'not dead'.

LUCY:  You were right.

DRACULA:  No, with your permission and all due respect, Miss Van
Helsing...

     Swales attempts to remove Dracula's full dinner plate

DRACULA:  Yes, I'm quite through, thank you...there is a
distinction.  The words 'not dead' carry the simple meaning...

SWALES:  Damn!

              Swales licks blood from a cut finger
                    Dracula watches intently

MINA:  Dead...undead...I don't care.  They all frighten me.

LUCY:  Oh, I love to be frightened.

DRACULA:  Do you?

                             LATER
                       The Seward Parlour
                     Harker and Lucy dance
            Mina pours coffee for Seward and Dracula

DRACULA:  This is written in an obscure regional dialect.  The
captain was a Magyar.  I am Shekyl.  Unfortunately, I cannot
translate it for you.

SEWARD:  Magyar.  Shekyl.  I had no idea, Count, that your
country was so complex.

DRACULA:  Oh, we're         doctor.  Indeed, it's very very
complex.

MINA:  Coffee?

SEWARD:  Umm.  So, you've come to England, Count, to settle down?

DRACULA:  Settle down?  No, hardly.  I've come to wander through
the crowded streets of London.  Or to be here in the midst of
the whirl and rush of humanity, to share its life, its change,
its death.

MINA:  You have a great lust for life, Count.

DRACULA:  How well you phrase it.

MINA:  (faints)

LUCY:  Mina!

MINA:  Oh, I'm all right.  I'm all right, I'm just dizzy.

SEWARD:  Swales, get the laudanum.

DRACULA:  No, no drugs.  You must not pollute her blood.  Put
her here, on the couch.  Forgive me, Doctor.  You see, in my
country we are a simpler people.  The strain of the last day has
been too much for you, Miss Van Helsing.  And I am the cause, I
fear.

MINA:  No, no, no.  It's just this...this pain in my head.  It
runs down here into my neck.

DRACULA:  I can remove this pain.

SEWARD:  Yes, and so can I.  Swales, get my...

DRACULA:  Such pains yield readily to suggestion.

HARKER:  If you mean hypnotism, she'd be better off having the
pain.

LUCY:  Why?

DRACULA:  I suspect Mr. Harker thinks of some ugly waving of
arms.  That is not my method.  Now, look at me.  When I will you
to do a thing, it shall be done, here and always.  From now on,
you have no pain.

LUCY:  And no will of her own, either.

SEWARD:  Lucy!

DRACULA:  I admire your candor, Miss Seward.  It is precisely
the kind of stimulating encounter I'd hoped to find here in
England.

HARKER:  Indeed.

DRACULA:  Yes, indeed.  I despise women with no life in them.
No blood.  When you awake, you will remember nothing.

MINA:  (wakes).  Good Lord, was it something that I said?

DRACULA:  Well, Mr. Harker, come.  We must talk seriously.  I
want to sign the deed to my new home here in England.

HARKER:  Of course.

LUCY:  Tonight, I won't hear of it.  This is meant to be a party
to welcome our new neighbor.  Come, Count, come and dance with
me.

DRACULA:  But I hardly know...

LUCY:  It doesn't matter.  I'll teach you.

DRACULA:  I meant I hardly know you.

LUCY:  Nonsense.

            Lucy and Dracula dance as Harker frowns

                           THAT NIGHT
                         Lucy's Bedroom
           Lucy gets out of bed while Mina sleeps on

                       The Seward Parlour
                     Enter Lucy on tiptoes

LUCY:  (whispering)  Jonathan?  Jonathan?

                          Enter Harker

HARKER:  Booo!

LUCY:  Oh, my God, Jonathan, don't ever do that...

HARKER:  I thought you loved to be frightened?

LUCY:  I think I shall go back to bed, Mr. Harker.

HARKER:  Mister Harker, is it?  I see.  Looks like I'm not going
to be good enough for the likes of you anymore, hobnobbing with
royalty now, are we?

LUCY:  Really, Jonathan, you pretend to be so utterly modern.
We were just dancing.

HARKER:  Just dancing.  That's a right amazing way of putting it.

LUCY:  Do you know, Jonathan, if you go on being cross, you're
going to sprout the most enormous wart right on the end of your
nose.

               The outside wall of the sanitarium
           Dracula crawls down the wall from the roof

                         Lucy's Bedroom
         Mina awakens to see Dracula remove windowpane
                         Enter Dracula

                       The Seward Parlour
                  Lucy and Harker sit together

                      Offstage:  Wolf howl

HARKER:  It's nothing.  Just a dog.

                             LATER
                         Lucy's Bedroom
       Lucy covers Mina with a blanket and returns to bed

                          Carfax Abbey
             Renfield awakens and eats a cockroach

RENFIELD:  Here we go.  Nice and fat and juicy.

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  Good evening.

       Renfield attempts to leave but the door won't open

DRACULA:  It will not open.  You have nothing to fear.  I'm
accustomed to barring my home.  There are wolves in Transylvania.

RENFIELD:  Not here, there ain't.

DRACULA:  You must have patience with me.  You must try to
understand me.  I can reward you with a long and fruitful life,
but I must have your loyalty.  Can you give that?

RENFIELD:  (nods)

DRACULA:  Then come.

RENFIELD:  I've been bit by a bat.

DRACULA:  Yes, I see.

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                         Lucy's Bedroom
            Lucy is awakened by Mina gasping for air

LUCY:  Mina, what's wrong?  What is it?  Poppa!  Poppa!  Come
quickly.  Darling, try and tell me what's wrong.  What is it?
Poppa, come quickly.

                          Enter Seward

LUCY:  Poppa, help her!

SEWARD:  What's wrong with her?

LUCY:  She can't breathe.

MINA:  My throat.  I can't get any air.

SEWARD:  There's plenty.  Take a deep breath.

                          Enter Harker

HARKER:  What happened?

SEWARD:  I don't know.  She's so white.  Asphyxia?

LUCY:  Just breathe in, darling.  Just breathe.  Try.

SEWARD:  Breathe, Mina.  Mina, breathe.  Breathe.

MINA:  I can't.  I can't.

SEWARD:  Breathe.  Breathe.  Breathe, Mina.

LUCY:  Breathe, Mina.  Breathe.  Breathe.  Poppa!  Oh, darling!

MINA:  (stops breathing entirely)

LUCY:  Oh, my God, Poppa!  She's dead!  Look at her throat!

SEWARD:  Two punctures.  Not very large but not wholesome.

LUCY:  Not wholesome?  Poppa, what are you talking about?

                      Exit Lucy and Harker

                             LATER
                      The Breakfast Table
   Seward talks on the phone as Mina and Harker eat breakfast

SEWARD:  Twelve Van Rigelstadt, Amsterdam.  Yes, Professor
Abraham Van Helsing.  Now, read the whole thing back to me like
a good girl.

                 Enter Swales with food platter

LUCY:  Nothing for me, thank you.

HARKER:  Come on, you need your strength.

LUCY:  I should never have left her alone.

HARKER:  That's preposterous.  You had no way of knowing.

SEWARD:  Mina has died.  No, not lied...DIED.  Telegraph, oh,
come at once.  Your dear friend on this saddest of occasions.
Jack Seward.  Yes.  I do hope the professor gets it.  That poor
poor man.

LUCY:  Poor Mina.

HARKER:  Do you think it was her heart?

LUCY:  Or that pain in her head last night?

SEWARD:  I don't know.  It's been so long since I've practiced
real medicine.

LUCY:  Well, what do you think killed her?

SEWARD:  Killed her?  That's an odd word.  Yet, there was no
sign of disease.

HARKER:  What about those marks on her neck?

SEWARD:  Marks on her neck, um?  Perhaps she injured herself
fastening her shawl.

LUCY:  Oh, father, don't be absurd!  You saw those wounds!

                          NEAR SUNDOWN
                          Carfax Abbey
             Jonathan knocks on the door and enters

HARKER:  Hello?  Hello?  Is anyone at home?  Hello?  Count
Dracula!

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  You needn't shout, Mr. Harker.  You frightened me.

HARKER:  I'm sorry.  I had a key.  I had to let myself in.

DRACULA:  I wonder where Renfield can be?

HARKER:  I don't know.  I knocked but he didn't...

DRACULA:  Yes.  Well, the man is worthless.  It doesn't matter,
at any rate, you are here.  Welcome, come up.

HARKER:  Thank you.  Hello.

DRACULA:  Good evening.  I'm sorry to hear of Miss Van Helsing's
death.

HARKER:  You know already?

DRACULA:  Yes.  News of death travels fast.  She was very ill.
I could tell last night when I looked into her eyes.

HARKER:  Yes.  She'd been frail all her life.  Here's your key.
I only had it to inspect the property.

DRACULA:  Yes, of course.  Have you brought the original deed?

HARKER:  Yes, if you'd like to sign at the bottom.  And some
customs documents for your crates.  Now, I didn't know what to
say of their contents.

DRACULA:  Soil.

HARKER:  Soil?  Just plain dirt?

DRACULA:  Transylvanian earth.  I have a keen interest in
Botany.  Can you drive to London at once to record the deed?

HARKER:  No.  Tomorrow I must stay with Lucy for the funeral.

DRACULA:  Oh, yes.  Of course.  She's taking it...?

HARKER:  Not well.  She blames herself.  She was with me when
Mina was taken ill.

DRACULA:  I see.  Then you and Miss Seward will marry?

HARKER:  Yes, I suppose so, if I can ever persuade her to settle
down long enough.

DRACULA:  Yes.  She is stronger than most women, isn't she?

HARKER:  Yes, she is.  I must be getting back now.

DRACULA:  Mr. Harker, would you deliver this letter to Dr.
Seward for me?

HARKER:  Of course.

DRACULA:  I should like to offer his daughter and he the
hospitality of my home after the funeral.  You're welcome, of
course, but you are leaving, are you not?

HARKER:  Good evening.

DRACULA:  Good evening.

                          Exit Harker

          The road from Carfax back to Billabeck Hall
                         Harker drives
           Enter Renfield suddenly from the back seat

RENFIELD:  Take me to the hospital!  Help me get away from the
castle!  You've got to help me!  Help me!  You've got to save
me!  Please, you've got to help me!

            In a nearby tree, a bat hangs listening

                   The Ward at Billabeck Hall
                   Harker brings in Renfield

ATTENDANT:  Hold him.  Hold him there.

RENFIELD:  The Master is angry.  He promised me lives...not
little ones--flies and spiders--but big ones.  Human lives!

                       THE NEXT AFTERNOON
                          The Cemetery
                         Mina's Funeral

PREACHER:  I am the resurrection and the life.  He that
believeth in me, yeah, though he were dead, yet shall he live.
And whosoever believeth in me shall never die.  I know that my
redeemer liveth and that I shall rise out of the earth on the
last day and shall be covered again with my skin and shall see
the Lord in my flesh.  Behold, I show you mystery.  When the
trumpet shall sound, the dead shall be raised incorruptible and
we shall be changed.  Then shall be brought to pass that which
stays.  Death, where is thy sting? Oh, grave, where is thy
hatred?

HARKER:  I don't see why not.  It's no good to stay around here
feeling sorry for yourself, feeling guilty for no reason.

LUCY:  You don't understand, Jonathan.  I don't want to feel
happy, to feel silly, not now.

HARKER:  Then I'll come back tomorrow night.

LUCY:  You needn't.  I can manage.

HARKER:  Can you?

LUCY:  Jonathan, let's not part enemies.

HARKER:  We're not enemies.

SEWARD:  Lucy.  Oh, Lucy.  Mina's father, professor Van Helsing,
is arriving from Paris this evening, and we shall have to meet
him.  I'm afraid we shall be unable to take advantage of Count
Dracula's kind invitation to dinner.

LUCY:  Invitation to dinner?  You didn't tell me...

SEWARD:  Didn't I?  Well, it doesn't matter now.  I'll have to
send word around excusing us.

LUCY:  No, I'll go.

SEWARD:  Go?  I should have thought you'd rather...

LUCY:  As a courtesy.

SEWARD:  He's sending a carriage round at eight, so if you...

                    THAT EVENING, 8:OO P.M.
        The Road between Billabeck Hall and Carfax Abbey
                Lucy rides in Dracula's carriage

                           MEANWHILE
                      Whitby Train Station
                  Van Helsing is met by Seward

CONDUCTOR:  Whitby.  Whitby.  This is Whitby station.

SEWARD:  Abraham!  In my own house!  How could I ever...

HELSING:  What happened?  What, in God's name, could have
happened?

SEWARD:  I don't know.  I don't know.

HELSING:  Jack, Jack, you must explain to me from the beginning
as patiently...

SEWARD:  I am baffled.

                          Carfax Abbey
                          Lucy arrives

LUCY:  Hello?  Hello?  Is anyone here?  Count Dracula?

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  Good evening.  Welcome to Carfax Abbey, Miss Seward.

LUCY:  Thank you.

DRACULA:  I regret Mr. Harker and your father were unable to
join us.  Let me see to your comfort.

       The Road from the Train Station to Billabeck Hall
          Seward rides in a carriage with Van Helsing

HELSING:  Of course, you examined her with great care?

SEWARD:  There were no functional causes, none.  She'd been
nervous, certainly, sleepwalking...

HELSING:  Sleepwalking?

SEWARD:  ...nightmares.  I prescribed laudanum.

HELSING:  What?  Laudanum?

SEWARD:  For nervous prostration.

HELSING:  But a great loss of blood?  How?

                          Carfax Abbey
                    Lucy dines with Dracula

LUCY:  Mina was so young.

DRACULA:  So are you.

LUCY:  Tonight I feel positively ancient.

DRACULA:  There are worse things than death.  You must believe
me.

LUCY:  If there are, I can't imagine them.

DRACULA:  I have buried many friends and I, too, am weary.  I am
the last of my kind, descended from a conquering race.  My
family was its heart's blood, its brains, its swords.  But the
warlike days are over.

LUCY:  Anyway, it's not healthy to live in the past.

DRACULA:  No, it isn't.  Jonathan Harker tells me you speak some
Romanian.

LUCY:  Oh, hardly, I know...

DRACULA:  (in Romanian)

LUCY:  (smiles)

DRACULA:  There, you do understand.

LUCY:  No, really.  I have no idea what you said.

DRACULA:  I said 'It would be nice to see you smile'.

LUCY:  Then you should be pleased.

DRACULA:  I am.  But I must warn you to take care.

LUCY:  Whatever for?

DRACULA:  If, at any time, my company does not please you, you
will have only yourself to blame for an acquaintance who seldom
forces himself but is difficult to be rid of.

                           THAT NIGHT
                   The Ward at Billabeck Hall
  A woman in tattered clothes leaps from a second floor window
          Annie comes tearing down the hall, screaming

ANNIE:  (screams)  Murder!  She's murdered my baby!

SWALES:  What's going on here?

ANNIE:  Doctor, help me!  She's murdered my baby!

SWALES:  My God, no, Annie.  Stop her!  Annie!  No, Annie!
Don't!

SEWARD:  What's happening?

         Seward and Van Helsing find Annie's baby dead

HELSING:  Two punctures directly into the aorta?

ANNIE:  She just opened the door, like she had a key.  She
murdered my little Alex.  She was as hot as like a burning coal,
and her eyes were red like rubies, and her lips all drawn back,
and her breath so foul.  And she had these long, dreadful teeth
like the fangs of a wolf...like nothing from this earth.  Then
she grabbed him, and I grabbed her, and the next thing I
remember, she bit him in the throat.

HELSING:  This woman, you did not know her?

ANNIE:  Yes, I did.  I did so.  It was Miss Lucy's friend Mina
who we put in the earth yesterday.

                          Carfax Abbey
                 Lucy and Dracula walk outside
                      Offstage:  Wolf call

DRACULA:  Listen to them, the children of the night.  What sad
music they make.

LUCY:  Do you think it's sad?

DRACULA:  So lonely, like weeping.

LUCY:  I think it's a wonderful sound.  I really love the night.
 It's so simple.

DRACULA:  So deceptive.

LUCY:  So exciting.

DRACULA:  You take the dawn for granted.  The warm, hot
sunlight.  Ah, but the night...

LUCY:  ...was made to enjoy.

DRACULA:  Yes.  Yes, it was.  It was made to enjoy life...and
love.  Look at me.  Look.  You must forgive me.

LUCY:  What for?

DRACULA:  For intruding on your life.

LUCY:  I came of my own accord.

DRACULA:  You should perhaps go.

LUCY:  No, I'd rather stay.

DRACULA:  It will be light soon.

LUCY:  Not for hours yet.

DRACULA:  I will see you again.

LUCY:  Oh, please!

                     EARLY THE NEXT MORNING
                       The Seward Parlour
          Van Helsing sits reading about vampire bats
                          Enter Seward

SEWARD:  Abraham?

HELSING:  Jack!

SEWARD:  Will you take some breakfast?

HELSING: Oh, yes, thank you, Jackie.  A little later perhaps, if
you please?

SEWARD:  Thank you.

                          THAT EVENING
                          The Cemetery
           Van Helsing sits overlooking Mina's grave
           which has been covered with garlic flowers
                           Enter Lucy

LUCY:  Professor, you should come inside now.  It's getting very
cold.

HELSING:  I was just sitting a while with Mina.

LUCY:  What are these?

HELSING:  Ah, those tiny flowers are from the garlic plant.

LUCY:  Whatever for?

HELSING:  Do you believe in corporeal transference?

LUCY:  No.

HELSING:  In materialization?

LUCY:  No.

HELSING:  And not in astral bodies?

LUCY:  What has this to do with Mina?

HELSING:  You know the legends of Central Europe of the
werewolves and vampires?

LUCY:  Vampires?

HELSING:  Creatures who suck the blood of the living?

LUCY:  You aren't saying that you believe that Mina attacked...

HELSING:  A creature that is dead and yet not dead.  A thing
that lives after its death by drinking...

LUCY:  Oh, no, please...

HELSING:  It must have blood or it dies an agonizing death.
Miss Lucy, I wonder if I may?

               Van Helsing hands Lucy a small box

HELSING:  This was to be Mina's for her birthday.  She would
want you to have it and to wear it always.

                   Lucy pulls out a crucifix

VANHELSING:  Always.

                   Mina puts on the crucifix
                   Enter Dracula on horseback

DRACULA:  Good evening, Lucy.

LUCY:  Good evening.

DRACULA:  I am Count Dracula.

HELSING:  Abraham Van Helsing.

DRACULA:  Then it is your daughter, sir, who brings me here.  I
have come to pay my respects.  What is that around your neck?

LUCY:  This?  It's a gift from Professor Van Helsing.

DRACULA:  How kind.

LUCY:  We were just going inside.  Perhaps you'd like to join us?

DRACULA:  No, thank you.  With your permission, sir?

HELSING:  With my blessing.

                       The Seward Parlour
                   Enter Lucy and Van Helsing

LUCY:  Do sit down, professor.  I'll bring you some tea.

HELSING:  Thank you, Miss Lucy.

      Van Helsing looks out window to see Dracula's horse
                   rearing over Mina's grave

                             LATER
                          The Cemetery
          Van Helsing, Seward and Swales lead a horse
                A wolf looks on from the shadows

SEWARD:  Abraham, this is nonsense.  Witchcraft!  This beast can
tell us nothing.  There are no such things as vampires.  There's
nothing but the Lord's own dead out here.

                    The horse begins to rear

SWALES: I can't hold it!

SEWARD:  What if he should break a leg?

HELSING:  He won't.  Look how alert!  See, he knows.  He will
find out where lies the vampire just as surely as you, Jack
Seward, could predict a human cancer.

                 The horse paws at Mina's grave

SEWARD:  Stop him!  Dear God in heaven, stop him!

                           THAT NIGHT
                         Lucy's Bedroom
                      Lucy sits on her bed
                         Enter Dracula
                     Dracula drinks of Lucy
        then opens a vein in his chest for her to drink

DRACULA:  Now it is you, my best beloved one.  You will be flesh
of my flesh, blood of my blood.  You shall cross land or sea to
do my bidding.  I need your blood.  I need.

                           MEANWHILE
                          The Cemetery
        Helsing and Seward prepare to open Mina's coffin

HELSING:  Give me a wrench and pliers, Jack.  Hold up the cross.

                      The coffin is empty

SEWARD:  It's not possible!  I saw her put...body snatchers!
      Van Helsing notices a hole in the side of the coffin

SEWARD:  The mines!  They run underneath the entire town,
everywhere.

              Van Helsing slides through the hole

SEWARD:  No.  No, Abraham, please, I...I...beg you...don't!

                   Seward follows Van Helsing
       A bat lunges at Van Helsing and he drops the cross

SEWARD:  The cross!  The cross!

                           Enter Mina

HELSING:  Mina!

MINA:  Poppa, komme mit mir.  Komme, poppa.

HELSING:  Leave me!

MINA:  Poppa!  Poppa!

SEWARD:  Mina, No!

                       Seward jumps Mina
        and burns a mark in her forehead with the cross
                       Mina spins around
         and is impaled on a stake held by Van Helsing

MINA:  Poppa!

                           Mina dies

                        LATE THAT NIGHT
                The front door at Billabeck Hall
             Mrs. Galloway opens the door to Harker

MRS. GALLOWAY:  Mr. Harker!

HARKER:  Mrs. Galloway, I'm sorry to bother you at this hour but
is Miss Lucy...

GALLOWAY:  In her room, sound asleep, which is where we should
all be if we had more common sense.

HARKER:  Yes, you're right.  I think I'll do the same.  I'll
wait till morning to say hello.  Lucy?  It's Jonathan.  Lucy?

              Lucy lies across the bed in a faint

HARKER:  What's the matter?  Lucy!  Oh, Lucy, what is it?  Lucy?

                  Enter Seward and Van Helsing

SEWARD:  Come, Abraham, we need to get......Jonathan?

HARKER:  Dr. Seward, thank God you're here.  Quickly, look at
Lucy.  She's so cold.  Professor...?

HELSING:  She has lost a great deal of blood.

SEWARD:  There's scarcely any pulse.  She'll have to be given a
blood transfusion.  I pray to God that one of us has her type.
Swales!

                             LATER
                         Lucy's Bedroom
       Seward gives Lucy a transfusion of Harker's blood
            Enter Van Helsing with basket of garlic

HELSING:  Take these and rub them against the inside of all
doors and windows.  Crush them against the glass so that the
fragrance permeates the whole room and keeps away all evil.  And
don't forget the little room in there.

HARKER:  Oh, good God, Professor, not garlic.  I'm sick to my
stomach as it is.

SEWARD:  Are you feeling weak?

HARKER:  No, it doesn't matter.

HELSING:  She needs more than your blood, Jonathan.

HARKER:  What she doesn't need is to breathe the odor from those
wretched plants!

HELSING:  Do not trifle with me.  There is a grim purpose in all
I do.

SEWARD:  Just a little bit longer.

                        Exit Van Helsing

                       The Seward Parlour
    Van Helsing fixes himself a drink and gazes in a mirror

HELSING:  Oh, how in the devil...

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  I'm not as bad as that.

HELSING:  I did not hear you come in, Count.

DRACULA:  I am often told I have a light footstep.

HELSING:  I was looking in the mirror.  It reflects the whole
room, and yet I cannot see...

           Dracula throws a vase, breaking the mirror

DRACULA:  Forgive me, Doctor, I dislike mirrors.  They are the
playthings of man's vanity.

HELSING:  You are a most unusual creature, Count Dracula.

DRACULA:  Yes.  How is the fair patient?

HELSING:  Her diagnosis presents difficulties.

DRACULA:  I feared it might, my friend.

HELSING:  Would you care to see what I have prescribed for her?

DRACULA:  Anything that you've prescribed for Miss Lucy has the
greatest interest for me.

HELSING:  My prescription is a most unusual one.

             Van Helsing holds up a bunch of garlic
                 Dracula cowers behind his cape

DRACULA:  You are a wise man, Professor, for one who has not
lived even a single lifetime.

HELSING:  You flatter me, Count.

DRACULA:  But not wise enough to return to Holland at once now
that you have learned what you have learned.

HELSING:  I prefer to remain.

DRACULA:  In the past 500 years, Professor, those who have
crossed my path have all died, and some not pleasantly.  Come
here!

       Van Helsing takes steps toward Dracula then stops

DRACULA:  Your will is strong.  Then, I must come to you.

                Dracula advances on Van Helsing
               Van Helsing pulls out a eucharist

DRACULA:  Sacrilege!  Sacrilege!

                Dracula leaps toward the window
                   while changing into a wolf
                    Enter Seward and Harker

SEWARD:  Abraham, the color is returning to Lucy's cheeks.

HARKER:  Professor?

SEWARD:  Abraham, what's happened to you?

HELSING:  Dracula has been here.

HARKER:  What for?

HELSING:  He came to kill me.

SEWARD:  He what?

HELSING:  It is he who is the vampire.

SEWARD:  Abraham, this night has been a monstrous...

HELSING:  He came to kill me, and now he will prey upon you.

HARKER:  What's happening?  Please, for God's sake, will someone
tell me what is happening?

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                          The Cemetery
   Seward, Van Helsing, Harker and Swales uncover Mina's body

HARKER:  She looks...

HELSING:  Alive? She is the devil's undead.

SEWARD:  Nosferatu.

HARKER:  You can't seriously expect me to believe that Count
Dracula is some hideous monster?

HELSING:  I don't expect you to believe anything but what is.

                  Van Helsing holds up mirror
                    Mina casts no reflection

HARKER:  What are you going to do?

HELSING:  To save her soul, I must take out her heart.

SEWARD:  Heaven and earth, NO!

HELSING:  It's not your choice.  She was my daughter.  If we
fail here, it is not merely a matter of life and death, it is
that we shall become such as she.  That we and your Lucy...

HARKER:  No, it's not possible!

HELSING:  ...may become foul things of the night.  There is
work, wise work, to be done.  And now are the powers of all the
devils against us.

        Van Helsing makes an incision into Mina's chest

                         Lucy's Bedroom
             Lucy peers through the window watching
                   the events in the cemetery

LUCY:  Mrs. Galloway?

GALLOWAY:  Yes?

LUCY:  Would you be kind enough to make me a cup of tea.  I feel
rather cold.

GALLOWAY:  No wonder.  The doctor's orders were that you should
stay in bed.  But how he thinks I could keep you there, I don't
know.

                        The Seward Foyer
              Mrs. Galloway walks through with tea
              Enter Harker, Van Helsing and Seward

HARKER:  Mrs. Galloway.

GALLOWAY:  Good morning, Mr. Harker.

HARKER:  Where's Lucy?

GALLOWAY:  In her room.  She's looking much better and asking
for tea.

        Harker, Van Helsing and Seward run to front door
            in time to see Lucy ride off in carriage

HARKER:  Get the car!

               The road from Billabeck to Carfax
             Harker, Van Helsing and Seward in car
                     chase Lucy in carriage

SEWARD:  Lucy, stop!  For God's sake, Lucy, stop!

HARKER:  What are you doing?  Where are you going?

LUCY:  Get out of my way, Jonathan.

HELSING:  There!  Now you must believe!

HARKER:  Lucy, now you can't possibly go to him.

LUCY:  He's no danger to me.

HARKER:  He's a monster, a vampire!

HELSING:  She means to warn him.

LUCY:  Jonathan, if you try to stop me, I shall kill myself.

HELSING:  I charge you on your living soul, Lucy Seward, that
you do not die or think of death until this great evil which has
fouled your life is true dead himself.

LUCY:  You dare try to confuse me.  Tormenting him who is the
saddest, the kindest of all.

HELSING:  Kind?  If I could send his soul to everlasting,
burning hell, I would!

LUCY:  I despise you, all of you.  Get out of my way!

HARKER:  Lucy, no...

LUCY:  Let me go!  Let me go!  No!

HARKER:  Be calm.  Be calm.

HELSING:  Take her home, Jack.  Watch over her.

SEWARD:  Abraham, what are you going to do?

HELSING:  Miss Lucy's life is at stake, and so is her soul.
Jonathan and I must go and find this monster and utterly destroy
it!

                         THAT AFTERNOON
                          Carfax Abbey
            Harker and Van Helsing break into Carfax

HARKER:  Oh, God, what a stench!

HELSING:  Take the cross, Jonathan, take the cross.

      Van Helsing opens Dracula's coffin to find it empty
                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  Gentlemen, how kind of you to call.

HELSING:  I have underestimated your powers, Count Dracula.  To
move about in daylight hours!

DRACULA:  It is always daylight somewhere on earth, Professor.
After my rest, my need is only to stay in darkness.

                Van Helsing holds up large cross
       Dracula grabs the cross and it bursts into flames

DRACULA:  You fools!  Do you think with your crosses and your
wafers you can destroy me?  Me!  You do not know how many men
have come against me.  I am the king of my kind.  You have
accomplished nothing, Van Helsing.  Time is on my side.  In a
century, when you are dust, I shall wake and call Lucy, my
queen, from her grave.

HARKER:  No!

DRACULA:  Yes.  I have in my time had many brides, Mr. Harker,
but I shall set Lucy above them all.

HARKER:  You won't get Lucy.

DRACULA:  She's mine already.

HARKER:  Nooo!

                Harker swings shovel at Dracula
           Dracula turns into bat and attacks Harker

HARKER:  God!  Damn you!  Help me, Professor!  Professor!

           Van Helsing breaks open a hole in the wall
                      letting in sunlight
                     Bat Dracula flies away
          Helsing places Eucharist in Dracula's coffin

HELSING:  In nomine patri filius et spiritus sancti.

                             LATER
                The Ward at Billabeck Sanitarium
      Seward leads Van Helsing and Harker through the ward

SEWARD:  But I helped him.  I saw that two of those crates were
safely delivered from the ship.

HELSING:  Yes, but you must not blame yourself.  He probably had
other coffins brought to him other ways.  You know this man's
cunning.

SEWARD:  Yes, and my poor Lucy, then.  He's probably got them
scattered all over Whitby by now.

HARKER:  Then we'll find them and tear them open one by one.

             Seward stops in front of a padded cell

HARKER:  In there?  She can't possibly be...

SEWARD:  I couldn't help it.  When she came round, she was like
a wild thing.

HELSING:  You have given her medication?  Laudanum?

SEWARD:  My own daughter?  Certainly not!

HARKER:  No, please, can I have a moment alone with her?
Please, I must.  I must.

HELSING:  But remember, Jonathan, she is not what she will seem.

                          Lucy's Cell
                       Lucy sits on a cot
                          Enter Harker

LUCY:  Jonathan!  What happened to your face?  You're frightened
of me, too, aren't you?  Oh, it can't be!  I don't understand.
I don't understand what's happening to me.

HARKER:  You seem yourself again.

LUCY:  I've never felt so weak.

HARKER:  Weak?  You had the strength of ten men.

LUCY:  Jonathan, can you still love me?

HARKER:  I worship you.

                      Lucy embraces Harker

LUCY:  Will you tell me something?

HARKER:  But of course.

LUCY:  What were you doing, you and my father and the Professor,
in the cemetery to Mina?

HARKER:  I can't.  I can't.

LUCY:  You say you love me, but you don't trust me.

HARKER:  Oh, Lucy, with my life, my soul.

LUCY:  Then tell me.  What were you doing, you and the
professor, at Carfax?  I only want to know if you can still love
me.

HARKER:  Oh, Lucy, please!  Please!

LUCY:  There's no need to hide your schemes and your plots from
me, is there?

HARKER:  No.

LUCY:  Jonathan, it's no use.  Whatever he wants to know, he
finds out.  He knows everything you think, everything you do.

HARKER:  Lucy, stop, please!

LUCY:  All right.

HARKER:  Stop it.

LUCY:  All right.

HARKER:  No.

LUCY:  Don't worry.

HARKER:  No, Lucy, please.

LUCY:  There's nothing to be frightened of.  I love you.

HARKER:  No, please.  No.

LUCY:  Shhhh.

HARKER:  No.  Oh, no.

        Lucy kisses Harker and attempts to bite his neck

HARKER:  Professor!  Professor!

                Enter Van Helsing with crucifix

LUCY:  Oh, no.  Oh, no.  Oh, no.  Oh, no.  Oh, no.

              Lucy kisses crucifix and passes out

SEWARD:  She'll sleep now.

HARKER:  But shouldn't we stay with her?

SEWARD:  It's all right.  My people will look after her.

                        Renfield's cell
                  Swales fights with Renfield

RENFIELD:  Give me them back!  Give me them back!  Give me them
back!  Give me them!  Dr. Seward, make him give me them back!

              Enter Seward, Van Helsing and Harker

SWALES:  He's collecting bugs!

SEWARD:  Bugs?

SWALES:  And he's eating them alive.  He's disgusting!

RENFIELD:  You'll see what disgusting is when he comes.

HELSING:  Excuse me.  When who comes, please?

RENFIELD:  You know.  Give me them back, you crap brain old
buzzard.  Ah, you've got no blood in you, anyway.  Besides, I've
got one here that you didn't find.

SWALES:  In the strait jacket with him.

SEWARD:  Do you think Dracula will come back tonight?

HARKER:  Of course, he will.

SEWARD:  When?

HELSING:  We must obviously be ready.

                        LATE THAT NIGHT
                        Renfield's Cell
           Renfield in straitjacket stands at window

RENFIELD:  They shouldn't have tied me up like this.  I would've
gone quiet, like a kitten.  I'd like a kitten, a nice, little,
sleek, playful kitten that I could feed you to.  I'd play with
him.  And I'd stroke him.  And I'd feed him and feed him and
feed him.

               Renfield looks out window and sees
                  Dracula climbing up the wall

RENFIELD:  Swales!  Mr. Swales!  Mr. Swales, he's coming to get
me.  He's climbing straight up the wall to get me.  I'm dying
and he's laughing with his red mouth and those sharp white teeth
of his like rats, hundreds and thousands and millions of them.

                         Enter Dracula

RENFIELD:  Oh, God, help my poor soul.

DRACULA:  Renfield.

RENFIELD:  I'm a slave, I'm a dog, master.  Put please, don't
kill me.  For the love of God, let me live.

DRACULA:  Did I not promise you that you should come to me at
your death and enjoy centuries of life and power over the bodies
and souls of others?

RENFIELD:  But I don't want human life.

DRACULA:  You betrayed me.  You sought to warn them all against
me.

RENFIELD:  Then punish me.  Torture me.  I deserve it.  But,
please, let me live.

DRACULA:  Oh, Renfield, you disappoint me so.

                 Dracula breaks Renfield's neck
                The ward explodes into commotion

                            The Ward
              Harker and Seward run to Lucy's cell

HARKER:  Dracula?  Come on!  Quickly.  Lucy!  Lucy!

              Find a hole in the wall and no Lucy
     Van Helsing, Seward and Harker look out window to see
            Dracula and Lucy climbing down the wall

SEWARD:  Come on.  Where is he taking her, Abraham?

               The Road from Billabeck to Carfax
             Seward, Van Helsing and Harker in car
                follow Dracula and Lucy on foot

SEWARD:  Faster!

HARKER:  I can't go any faster!

                          Carfax Abbey
                     Enter Dracula and Lucy

DRACULA:  Lucy, come.  Come to me.

                    Lucy and Dracula embrace

DRACULA:  Now, you must go on a bit longer as a creature of the
sun, only until we have left behind those who would destroy us.

LUCY:  And then?

DRACULA:  Then you will join me on a higher plane, feeding on
them.  We will create more of our kind, Lucy.

                             LATER
                          A Crossroad
                  Harker's car comes to a stop

HARKER:  Which way?

SEWARD:  I know that way lies Scarborough but I don't know!

VAN HELSING:  Listen.  Listen.

                  Sound of a wagon approaching

HARKER:  Hey, there, driver!

SEWARD:  Tom Hensley, is that you?

HENSLEY:  Yes, sir, it's me.

HARKER:  What are you doing out here at this hour?

HENSLEY:  I had to pick up another one of them damn crates and
take it to the dock at Scarborough before I could...woah!  Woah!

                Hensley's horses charge onwards

SEWARD:  Look.  That crate!

HARKER:  Scarborough!

VAN HELSING:  The port!

HARKER:  Then he's leaving England.

SEWARD:  After him.

                     Harker follows Hensley

SEWARD:  Hensley, for God's sake, stop, man!

HENSLEY:  I can't stop her.  I'm doing my best.  Whoa, Nellie!

    Hensley's cart hits a rock and throws him into the road

SEWARD:  Look out.

           Harker's car runs off the road into a tree

SEWARD:  This thing mocks us, Abraham.

HELSING:  If we are beaten, then there is no God.

HARKER:  The axle's cracked.

HELSING:  Scarborough, how far is it?

SEWARD:  It's ten miles.  It's no use.

HARKER:  Come on, we must try.

          Harker, Seward and Van Helsing begin walking

                        TEN MILES LATER
                      The Scarborough Dock
       Harker, Seward and Van Helsing arrive on the dock

SEWARD:  Where is it?

HELSING:  You, sir.  This wagon.  You did see it arrive?

BOATSMAN:  Is that the one with the big crates on it?

HARKER:  Yes, where is it?

BOATSMAN:  It's out there, aboard the Czarina Catherina, bound
for Romania.

HARKER:  Take us to Romania.

HELSING:  We must catch that ship.

BOATSMAN:  What?

HELSING:  You stay here, in case they are not on board.  Keep
well, bye.

SEWARD:  Take care.

                     The Czarina Catherina
                  Van Helsing and Harker board

HARKER:  Dracula, where is he?  Count Dracula is on this ship.

SAILORS:  Nyet, nyet.

HELSING:  Nosferatu.  Vampyr!

          Harker and Van Helsing descend into the hold

HARKER:  Where is it?  Come on.

HELSING:  Jonathan, here!

HARKER:  I see it.

      Open the coffin to find Lucy lying in Dracula's arms
            Lucy awakens and is lifted out by Harker
         Van Helsing places stake over Dracula's heart

LUCY:  Noooooooooooooo!

            Dracula awakens and impales Van Helsing
            Dracula attempts to break Harker's neck
       Van Helsing throws a winchhook into Dracula's back
                Harker winds Dracula up the mast
                 where he hangs in the sunlight

LUCY:  Nooooooo!

                    Lucy becomes human again
              Dracula's cape escapes from the mast
                          Lucy smiles

                            THE END


