This script was transcribed by BJ Kuehl.  Any corrections
should be sent to her at bj@csd.uwm.edu.


                              1970

                         Bram Stoker's
                   C O U N T   D R A C U L A

                              cast

       Count Dracula......................Christopher Lee
       Van Helsing............................Herbert Lom
       Renfield..............................Klaus Kinski
       Jonathan Harker..................Frederick Willams
       Dr. Seward.............................Paul Muller
       Mina Murray.............................Maria Rohm
       Lucy Westenra......................Soledad Miranda
       Quincey Morris.........................Jack Taylor

     Over fifty years ago,  Bram  Stoker wrote the greatest of
all horror stories.  Now, for the first time,  we retell exactly
as he wrote, one of the first--and still the best--tales of the
macabre.

               T R A N S Y L V A N I A   1 8 9 7

                            MORNING
               The train station at Klausenburgh
       Jonathan Harker boards the 9:45 train to Bistritz

MAN:  Please.

HARKER:  Thank you.

                     The train compartment
     Harker attempts conversation with his compartment mate

HARKER:  Excuse me, you do speak English?

MAN:  A little but, please, speak slowly.

HARKER:  Does this train stop in Bistritz?

MAN:  Yes.  I go there myself.

HARKER:  Well, thank goodness for that.  Do you live near
Bistritz?

MAN:  I'm traveling there on business.

HARKER:  So, am I.  I'm a lawyer...or rather I hope I'm going to
be one...from London.

MAN:  Whew, from London!

HARKER:  I'm going there to visit one of our clients.  Maybe you
know him?  Count Dracula?

MAN:  (gasp)

HARKER:  Do you know him?

MAN:  My dear sir, may God preserve you because, if you go to
visit Count Dracula, you may need God's help.

                          THAT EVENING
                       An Inn at Bistritz
          Harker is greeted by the innkeeper Vladimir
                       and his wife Greta

VLADIMIR:  Are you the English...?

HARKER:  Jonathan Harker.

VLADIMIR:  We have strict orders from the Count to look after
you.  A place has been reserved for you on the stagecoach
tomorrow.  And the count's own carriage will meet you at the
Borgo's Pass.

GRETA:  Vladimir.

HARKER:  Is anything the matter?

VLADIMIR:  Oh, no, sir.  Your bedroom is ready upstairs.  And we
have prepared some food for you.

HARKER:  Thank you but I'm feeling very tired.  I'll be going to
bed early.

VLADIMIR:  Very good, sir.

                   Harker goes up to his room

                           THAT NIGHT
                  Harker's bedroom at the Inn
     Awakened by a storm, Harker sees Greta staring at him

HARKER:  Who's there?

                      Harker pursues Greta

HARKER:  What do you want?

GRETA:  Excuse me, sir, I wanted to talk to you, but my husband
said I should not.  But tomorrow...tomorrow night, it's St.
George's Night.

HARKER:  What of it?

GRETA:  When the clock strikes midnight, all the evils of the
world circle around us.  Sir, do you know where you are going
and what you are going to?

VLADIMIR:  Greta!

GRETA:  I must go.

                    THE NEXT MORNING AT DAWN
                        Outside the Inn
           Harker boards the carriage to Borgo's Pass

HARKER:  Good morning.  Well, I rather missed you last night.

MAN:  I chose other company, sir.

HARKER:  Why do you look at me so strangely?  Why does everybody
look at me like that?

MAN:  Because tonight is St. George's Night and...

HARKER:  And what else?

MAN:  They know your destination.

                           Exit Coach

                      SEVERAL HOURS LATER
                   The coach to Borgo's Pass

HARKER:  Excuse me, how far is it to the Borgo's Pass?

MAN:  We'll be there by nightfall.

HARKER:  And from the pass to Count Dracula's castle?

MAN:  You'd best ask whoever meets you, sir.  To tell the truth,
I've never seen the place and, please God, I never shall.

                           NIGHTFALL
                          Borgo's Pass
                       The coach arrives

COACHDRIVER:  This is the Borgo's Pass.

MAN:  May God protect you, sir.

                        Harker dismounts
                      The coach hurries on
                     A carriage approaches

DRIVER:  The night is cold and my master, the Count, bade me
take all care of you.

            Driver offers Harker a flask of alcohol

HARKER:  No, thank you.  I don't need it.

DRIVER:  As you wish.  But it gives both warmth and courage.

                   Harker mounts the carriage
                      Offstage:  Wolf call
           Harker sees wolves following the carriage
                  Suddenly, the carriage stops
The driver dismounts, raises his arms and shoos the wolves away
                   The carriage continues on

                             LATER
                         Castle Dracula
                  Harker arrives at the castle

DRACULA:  Welcome to my house.

HARKER:  Count Dracula?

DRACULA:  I am Dracula.  Enter freely and of your own will.

                      Harker enters castle

DRACULA:  It is late and my servants have gone to bed.  I will
see to your comfort myself.

               Dracula shows Harker to bedchamber

DRACULA:  You will need to refresh yourself after your journey.
I trust that you will find everything you require.

              Dracula passes in front of a mirror
         Harker notes that Dracula casts no reflection

DRACULA:  I shall await your pleasure.

                             LATER
                          The Parlour
           Harker dines while conversing with Dracula

HARKER:  You do not dine, sir?

DRACULA:  I have already dined.

HARKER:  I hope you'll find everything in order.  The purchase
document duly receipted, the title deed to the house, the plans.
 The house is in poor condition but it stands back well away
from the main road to London, completely isolated, just as you
require.  It is strongly built but it has remained empty for
quite a long time.

DRACULA:  Yes.  Yes, an empty house.  It is exactly what I
require.

HARKER:  Have you lived here for many years?

DRACULA:  All my life.

     Dracula and Harker retire to chairs before a fireplace
          Dracula lifts papers, and a photo falls out

DRACULA:  Your wife?

HARKER:  No, I'm not married yet, but the lady on the left is my
fiance.

DRACULA:  And the other?

HARKER:  Miss Lucy Westenra, her closest friend.

DRACULA:  Charming.

HARKER:  Thank you.  Forgive me for asking, sir, but why do you
plan to live in England?

DRACULA:  I am not young and yet I am restless.

HARKER:  And what about this great castle?  It is, I presume,
the family home?

DRACULA:  True.  The shadows of my past remain here.  We are the
second Magyar.  We have a right to be proud for in us flows the
blood of many brave races.  The blood of Attila is in these
veins.  To us was entrusted for centuries the guardian of our
lands.  The Lombard, the Bulgar, the Turk poured their thousands
against our frontiers.  We drove them back.  The Draculas have
ever been the heart's blood, the brains, the sword of our
people.  One of my race crossed the Danube and destroyed the
Turkish host.  Though sometimes beaten back, he came again and
again against the enemy.  But, at the end, he came alone from
the bloody field for he alone could triumph.  This was a Dracula
indeed.  But now, the wind blows coldly through the broken
battlements.  Although this is my home, I must move on.

HARKER:  I don't regret my journey, but surely the post might
have served you much easier and far cheaper.

DRACULA:  If I am to begin a new life in a new land, I must
learn something of its people from such as yourself.  You are my
honoured quest.

                      Offstage:  Wolf call

DRACULA:  Listen to them...children of the night.  What music
they make!  But you are weary.  You shall sleep late.

HARKER:  You are most gracious, but my employers, your
solicitors, expect me back in London.

DRACULA:  We shall see.  But for now, you are here at my
invitation...nay, at my command.  Come.  Do you enjoy the chase,
Mr. Harker?

HARKER:  I've never had the opportunity.

DRACULA:  The greatest of all sports.  You have the power of
life and death over a living being.

          Dracula shows Harker back to his bedchamber

DRACULA:  Good night, Mr. Harker.

                      Harker's bedchamber
                     Harker opens a window
               Offstage:  the sound of bat wings
             Harker tries the door but it is locked
                  Bats fly outside the window
                     Harker lies on his bed

                        DURING THE NIGHT
                    Outside the castle wall
                         A woman cries

WOMAN:  Where's my baby?  I want my baby back!  I want him back!
 Please, help me!  Please!  Give my baby back.  Give him back!
Give him back.

                        Harker's bedroom
                      Harker lies sleeping
                    Enter three vampiresses

FIRST VAMPIRESS:  You are first and we shall follow.

SECOND VAMPIRESS:  Yours is the right to begin.

THIRD VAMPIRESS:  He is young and strong; there are kisses for
us all.
                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  Back!  Back!  This man belongs to me!

FIRST VAMPIRESS:  He is ours.  We found him first.

BABY:  (cry)

                Vampiresses run to baby in bag.

                        THE NEXT MORNING
       Harker awakens, looks out window, and sees Dracula
                  climbing up the castle wall
              Harker feels two marks on his neck,
                 climbs out his bedroom window,
         crawls along a ledge and enters another window

                           The crypt
                 Harker opens Dracula's coffin

VAMPIRESSES:  (whispering from their coffins)  Jonathan!
Jonathan!  Jonathan!  Jonathan!  Jonathan!  Jonathan!

DRACULA:  This man belongs to me!

                  Harker leaps out the window
                 and falls to the ground below

             ************************************

                          L O N D O N

                        MANY WEEKS LATER
                 A Room at Van Helsing's Clinic
                  Dr. Seward attends to Harker
                    as he awakens from coma

SEWARD:  Good morning.

HARKER:  Where am I?  Who are you?

SEWARD:  I am Dr. Seward, and this is Professor Van Helsing's
private clinic not far from London.

HARKER:  How did I get here?

SEWARD:  Your body was found in a mountain stream, 200 KM from
Budapest.

HARKER:  And what of Count Dracula?  I escaped from his castle
but he followed me with the others disquised as bats--giant
bats--with great teeth waiting to draw blood!  I didn't dream
it!  The bats were real--as big as men!  Why don't you believe
me?

                 Seward gives Harker a sedative

HARKER:  What are you doing?

                         Harker sleeps
                       Enter Van Helsing

SEWARD:  Ah, professor.

HELSING:  Have you made inquiries?

SEWARD:  This young Englishman, Jonathan Harker, had been
reported missing some weeks ago.  Some friends of his are on
their way to London to identify him and see what they can do.

HELSING:  I see.  Did he speak?

SEWARD:  A little...not much.  He kept mumbling something about
a certain Count Dracula.

HELSING:  Dracula!

                    Offstage:  A man screams

SEWARD:  That's Renfield again.

HELSING:  See to it.

SEWARD:  Yes, professor.

                          Exit Seward
       Van Helsing examines Harker's neck and notes marks

                        Renfield's cell
                    Renfield eats a dead fly
                   Enter Seward and Attendant

SEWARD:  Good morning, Renfield.  What is it, Renfield?
Renfield, nobody's going to hurt you.

                Renfield looks out barred window
                across the lawn to Carfax Abbey

SEWARD:  What is it, Renfield?  Ah, yes, somebody's bought the
old house.

ATTENDANT:  It's been empty long enough.

SEWARD:  Renfield, nobody's going to hurt you.  Let him be.
I'll see him again later.

                   Exit Seward and Attendant.
         Renfield watches Carfax as crates are unloaded

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                         Train Station
                      Mina and Lucy arrive

ATTENDANT:  Miss Murray?

MINA:  Yes?

ATTENDANT:  I was ordered to drive you to the clinic.  This way,
please.

            Mina, Lucy and Attendant enter carriage

MAN:  Van Helsing's Clinic.  Drive on.

                      Van Helsing's Clinic
             Mina and Lucy step out of the carriage

LUCY:  Mina, look!  What's that?

             A dog (wolf?) growls at Mina and Lucy

MINA:  A dog, silly.

                      Van Helsing's Foyer
               Enter Lucy and Mina and Attendant

ATTENDANT:  Professor Van Helsing's assistant awaits you
upstairs.  I'll take care of the luggage.

MINA:  Thank you.

                  Exit Mina and Lucy upstairs

                         Harker's room
                     Seward opens the door
                      Enter Mina and Lucy

MINA:  Jonathan!  Jonathan.

HARKER:  Mina.  Lucy.

                  Offstage:  Renfield screams

MINA:  Jonathan, what is this place?

SEWARD:  Please, he must rest.  I urge you not to show him that
you are alarmed.

MINA:  I want to know what is wrong with him.

SEWARD:  We specialize here in the treatment of the mentally
disturbed.

MINA:  You mean you think Jonathan's mad?

                  Offstage:  Renfield screams

LUCY:  (faints)

                     Van Helsing's Parlour
                       Lucy lies on couch
                Mina and Van Helsing attend her

HELSING:  Your friend is in need of attention.  She should not
have been allowed to travel.

MINA:  She insisted on coming with me.  Couldn't you help her,
professor?

HELSING:  It would perhaps be best if she stays here.  Dr.
Seward and I could look after her.

MINA:  In that case, I shall stay here, too.

HELSING:  Very well, I shall have rooms prepared for you both.

MINA:  Professor Van Helsing?

HELSING:  Yes?

MINA:  Jonathan is sane, completely sane.

HELSING:  It's not quite as simple as that.  There is no doubt
that he has suffered a shock of some kind.  The result is that
either he is subconsciously relating a nightmare or he's lying.

MINA:  Jonathan wouldn't lie!  And he's not mad!

HELSING:  Then perhaps you can persuade him to remember what
really happened because without...

LUCY:  (sighs and wakes up)

MINA:  Lucy!

LUCY:  Mina, forgive me.  I was so stupid to faint.

MINA:  Oh, I shouldn't have let you come.  The long
journey...and now this.

                        Enter Attendant

ATTENDANT:  Sir?

HELSING:  Prepare two rooms for the ladies on the ground floor.

ATTENDANT:  Yes, sir.

                         Exit Attendant

HELSING:  I should warn you.  I have a number of patients here
who must be kept in close confinement.  Do not, on any account,
venture beyond the first floor, please.  Well, I shall leave
you.  You must both be tired after your journey.  Your rooms
will be ready soon.

                        Exit Van Helsing

                          THAT EVENING
                         Lucy's Bedroom
         Lucy sleeps as a bat flits outside the window

DRACULA:  (whispering from offstage)  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!

                          Lucy awakens

DRACULA:  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!

                      Lucy gets out of bed

DRACULA:  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!

                           Exit Lucy
                           Enter Mina

MINA:  Lucy?  Lucy?  Lucy?

                           Exit Mina

                      Van Helsing's Foyer
                   Lucy exits the front door

DRACULA:  (whispering from offstage)  Lucy!

                           Enter Mina

MINA:  Lucy?  Lucy?  Lucy?

                   Mina exits the front door
                 Lucy walks toward Carfax Abbey
                       Mina follows Lucy
   Mina sees Dracula holding Lucy, then sees Dracula's shadow
                 The shadow suddenly disappears
             Mina runs to Lucy lying on the ground

                             LATER
                         Lucy's bedroom
                 Mina and Seward attend to Lucy

SEWARD:  You say you thought you saw a man?

MINA:  I was mistaken.

SEWARD:  And these two spots?

MINA:  There was a pin which held her wrap.

SEWARD:  Perhaps you pricked her by accident.  She appears to be
suffering from a very considerable loss of blood.  I shall have
to consult Professor Van Helsing.  Her condition is serious.

MINA:  I blame myself.  Doctor...

SEWARD:  I don't want to alarm you but has she any relatives?

MINA:  None, but she's engaged quite recently to a young baron,
Quincey Morris.

SEWARD:  Perhaps you should send him a telegram.

                          THE NEXT DAY
                     The Van Helsing Foyer
       Dr. Seward opens the front door to Quincey Morris

MORRIS:  Professor Van Helsing?

SEWARD:  No, I'm Dr. Seward.  How do you do?

MORRIS:  My name is Quincey Morris.  I'm Miss Westenra's fiance.

SEWARD:  Oh, I see.  Please, come in.  Take off your coat.

MORRIS:  I came as soon as I heard.

SEWARD:  I'm glad you came.  We're doing our best but...

MORRIS:  But isn't there anything I can do for her?

                       Enter Van Helsing

HELSING:  Yes, you can give her a transfusion of your blood.
Come.  I'm Professor Van Helsing.

MORRIS:  Quincey Morris.

              Exit Van Helsing, Morris and Seward

                       A FEW HOURS LATER
                         Lucy's Bedroom
  Seward finishes giving Lucy a transfusion of Morris's blood

HELSING:  Now, I think she has a chance.  We'll just have to
wait and see.

                           THAT NIGHT
                         Lucy's Bedroom
               A bat flits outside Lucy's window

DRACULA:  (whispering from offstage)  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!

                          Lucy awakens

DRACULA:  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!  Lucy!

                     Lucy opens the window
                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  (drinks from Lucy's neck)

                      Lucy falls to floor

                     Van Helsing's Parlour
         Morris, asleep on couch, is awakened by a thud
                   Exit Morris to Lucy's room

                         Lucy's Bedroom
                     Lucy lies on the floor
                          Enter Morris

MORRIS:  Lucy!

   Morris closes window, picks up Lucy and places her in bed

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                  Offstage:  Renfield screams
                         Clinic Hallway
         Harker walks down hall toward Renfield's cell
                     Harker opens peephole
                Sees Renfield crouched at window
                        Enter Attendant

ATTENDANT:  What are you doing here?  I'm afraid you're not
allowed in this part of the house.  Come along.  Come on.

                   Exit Harker and Attendant

                      Van Helsing's Office
             Morris and Mina talk with Van Helsing

MINA:  Professor, you must do something.  You can't let her die
through ignorance.

HELSING:  Ignorance?  Perhaps, my dear, not so much ignorant as
afraid...of admitting my own suspicions.

                  Offstage:  Renfield screams

HELSING:  The man whose voice you hear was once as sane as you
or I.  He had a daughter, young and beautiful.  Together they
were traveling in Transylvania.  They stopped in a town called
Bistritz.  One night, the girl was found unconscious in her bed,
half dead from loss of blood.  Day by day, like the fly who is
the spider's prey, she grew weaker.  The father watched and
waited by her bedside till one night, when she was close to her
end, the neighbors heard a terrible shriek.  They found the
daughter dead and the father as he is now.

MORRIS:  True, there is some similarity in the case, but that is
no explanation.

HELSING:  Perhaps not but, you see, all my life I have made a
study of what some people call the "black arts".  That's why
Renfield was admitted to my care.  And also Jonathan Harker.
The mountains in the north of Transylvania are rich in legend,
yet behind the legend--behind the fantasy--there are certain
facts.  Occasionally, a glimmer of the truth reaches us.  I
think that Jonathan has seen some of that truth.
                          Enter Harker

HARKER:  Then why didn't you believe what I told you about Count
Dracula?

MINA:  Jonathan!  Oh, Jonathan!

HELSING:  I cannot tell you.  I dare not!

                          THAT EVENING
                        Renfield's Cell
      Renfield watches Carfax Abbey from his barred window

                   The Crypt at Carfax Abbey
                Dracula awakens from his coffin

                        Renfield's Cell
         Renfield works free the window bars and jumps
             from three stories up, breaking an arm

                           THAT NIGHT
                         Lucy's Bedroom
               Mina brings a drink to Lucy in bed

MINA:  Lucy, sweet.  Now, you drink this.

                 Offstage:  A door creaks shut

MINA:  Who's there?  Who's there?

                           Exit Mina
                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  (drinks from Lucy's neck)

                   Enter Mina, seeing Dracula

MINA:  (screams)
                      Exit Dracula as Bat
                    Enter Seward and Morris

MINA:  She's dead!  Lucy's dead!  She's dead!

                       Enter Van Helsing

HELSING:  But you are still alive.  It is a sign.  Perhaps it's
not too late for me to act.

                             LATER
                      Van Helsing's Study
    Seward, Morris, Mina and Harker confer with Van Helsing

HELSING:  In my search for the secrets of the black arts, this
is what I found and what concerns us now.

                    Van Helsing opens a book

HELSING:  May I?  "Known through legend in such diverse
countries as Greece, Rome, France, India and even China, he doth
fatten upon the blood of the living.  He can by such nourishment
even grow younger.  He throws strange shadows when he walks upon
the earth.  He can transform himself to dog, to bat, to other
kinds of beast.  He lives by night for by day he must conceal
himself within his grave.  Those upon whom he nourishes himself
sicken and die and then become like him, vampires themselves.
His name is Dracula.

HARKER:  Why can't this man be arrested?

HELSING:  You underestimate Count Dracula.  What good are laws
against someone who can set himself above the law?

                      Offstage:  Wolf call

HELSING:  His spirit is all around us.  Some of us are
completely within his power.

MORRIS:  Professor, you know so much about the black arts.
Suppose you too are Dracula's servant?

HELSING:  I have never met the Count, and yet I feel I know him
better than my own soul.

                          THE NEXT DAY
                         Lucy's Funeral

                     SEVERAL EVENINGS LATER
                            The Park
               A child wanders from her friends.
                           Enter Lucy

LUCY:  Come here.  Come here.

                      Exit Lucy and child

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                      Van Helsing's Study
                 Van Helsing reads at his desk
               Enter Mina with tea and newspaper

HELSING:  Ah, good morning, my dear.  You have become not only a
nurse but a servant.  I shall miss you when you leave London.

              Mina hands Van Helsing the newspaper

HELSING:  Thank you.  How's Jonathan this morning?

MINA:  Much better.

HELSING:  Good, good.

MINA:  I think it helped him beyond measure being able to tell
you his story and to know that, however fantastic, you were
prepared to admit it could be true.

HELSING:  Indeed, I only wish it weren't because...Great
heavens!  It is just as I feared...a child found dead.

MINA:  Where?

HELSING:  Near here.  Near the church.  Last night.

                    Enter Harker and Morris

HELSING:  Yes?  Ah, gentlemen, I shall need your help.

MORRIS:  Whatever we can do.

HELSING:  Come, sit down.  I shall want you to accompany me this
evening.  We're going to visit Miss Lucy Westenra's grave.

                      JUST AFTER MIDNIGHT
                      Outside Lucy's Crypt
              Enter Van Helsing, Morris and Harker

MORRIS:  Van Helsing, as I told you this afternoon, I'm not
afraid of any danger but this is...

HELSING:  What if I tell you that you may be saving the lives of
scores of other children?

MORRIS:  You mean Count Dracula may be hiding here?

HELSING:  Worse than that.  Far worse.  The nice and innocent
girl you love.

MORRIS:  You're mad!  Lucy, the killer of children?

HELSING:  Be brave.  Before the night is out, if her spirit is
to be saved, you must obey me absolutely!

       Van Helsing, Morris and Harker enter Lucy's Crypt

                      Inside Lucy's Crypt
                   Harker open Lucy's coffin

HELSING:  One o'clock.  Open it.

                      The Coffin is empty

HELSING:  So far, I'm right.

                      SEVERAL HOURS LATER
                      Inside Lucy's Crypt
              Van Helsing, Morris and Harker wait

HELSING:  Another few minutes.

MORRIS:  Look, it will soon be light.

HELSING:  It won't be long now.  Remember what I told you.

                           Enter Lucy

HELSING:  Now!  Your spade.  Do as I say.  Open it.

                      Opens Lucy's Coffin
         Van Helsing drives take through Lucy's heart.

HELSING:  Use your spade, man!

             Morris cuts off Lucy's head with spade

                          THAT MORNING
                        Renfield's Cell
                   Seward attends to Renfield

SEWARD:  Renfield, relax.  Please, relax.  Renfield, relax.
Please, relax.  It's passed.  Renfield, it's passed.  Look at
me.  Can you understand me?  Renfield, look at me.  Can you
understand me?

RENFIELD:  (nods)

SEWARD:  My god, you can.  Whatever your sickness was, it's
passed.  Now then, tell me what you know.  Come on, tell me what
you know.  Come on, that's it.  Tell me.  Go on.

                       EARLY THAT EVENING
                      Van Helsing's Study
      Van Helsing, Seward, Morris, Mina and Harker confer

HELSING:  Whether by accident or design, it would appear that
our foe is closer than we thought.

HARKER:  It's my fault, professor.  I never thought to connect
the property bought by the Count with this place.  But, those
cases we saw delivered...those must have been the same cases I
saw in the vaults beneath Count Dracula's castle.  He used them
to transport himself to England.

HELSING:  And now they provide his hiding place by day whereas
at night...

                      Clocks strikes 6 PM

HARKER:  If we're going to find him, we must hurry.

MINA:  Oh, Jonathan!

MORRIS:  Don't worry.  This time I've come prepared.

HELSING:  I have two better weapons.  Take these.

             Van Helsing hands them each a crucifix

HELSING:  Against them, Count Dracula is powerless.

HARKER:  Are we ready?  Then, let's go.

                 Exit Harker, Seward and Morris

MINA:  Professor, I should like to talk to this man, Renfield.
He could be the key to Count Dracula.

HELSING:  Very well, you may see him.  But not alone.  He may
reveal more to you than to us.

                        Enter attendant

HELSING:  Take this young lady to Renfield.  Do as I say.

                    Exit Mina and Attendant
            Van Helsing appears sicken and collapse

                      A SHORT WHILE LATER
                          Carfax Abbey
       Morris, Harker and Seward break into Carfax Abbey

MORRIS:  (pointing to outline of dirt on the floor)  Look!

SEWARD:  A case must have stood here.  Maybe we're too late.
         Stuffed wild animals begin to howl and advance

HARKER:  Watch out!

                         Enter Dracula

                        Renfield's Cell
                    Mina addresses Renfield

MINA:  I know how you tried to help.  Perhaps you could tell us
more.

                          Carfax Abbey

DRACULA:  Kill.

                        Renfield's cell
                Renfield attempts to choke Mina

                          Carfax Abbey
                     Harker pulls out cross
                       Dracula turns away
                 Stuffed animals stop advancing

                        Renfield's cell
                  Renfield stops choking Mina

                          Carfax Abbey

HARKER:  We must sanctify this place as Professor Van Helsing
told us.

                        Renfield's Cell
           Attendant places Renfield in strait jacket

ATTENDANT:  I'd like to see you find your way out of that, my
lad.

                      SEVERAL WEEKS LATER
                           The Opera
                   Mina sits in a private box

                        A London Street
                     Dracula passes Hooker

HOOKER:  Evening, your honour.  Care for a little fun?

                        Dracula walks on
        A carriage approaches bearing Harker and Morris

HARKER:  That man!  It looked like the Count but younger...much
younger.

MORRIS:  Your eyes are playing tricks.  They're waiting for us.
Come on.  Come on.

                Harker and Morris enter Embassy

                       Inside the Embassy
   Morris and Harker are greeted by Van Helsing in wheelchair

HELSING:  Mr. Harker, Mr. Morris, I want you to meet my good
friend, the home secretary.

SECRETARY:  Good evening.

MORRIS:  Good evening.

HARKER:  Good evening, sir.

MORRIS:  Thank you for receiving us, sir.  For a moment the
other night, we thought the professor was, as the Americans say,
a "goner".

HELSING:  Ah, a slight stroke.  But, although my legs are a
little uncertain, I trust my intellect is not a goner.

SECRETARY:  A watch is now being kept on every means of exit
from the country.  A description of the wooden case in which we
believe, so the professor told me, the Count may be concealing
himself has been circulated, too.

                         Enter Courier

COURIER:  (gives telegram to Harker)

MORRIS:  Some news, perhaps?

HARKER:  I don't understand.  It's from Mina.  Something about
the opera...and a ticket.

HELSING:  You let her leave the house without an escort?

HARKER:  I sent no ticket.

HELSING:  Your excellency, we shall have to act at once.  This
may be the work of Dracula himself.

                           The Opera
                   Mina sits alone in her box
                         Enter Dracula

                         MOMENTS LATER
                           The Opera
                       Mina lies on floor
                    Enter Morris and Harker
                     See bites on her neck

HARKER:  A doctor!  Someone call a doctor!  For God's sake, is
there a doctor here?

                       LATER THAT EVENING
                       A London Dockyard
                   Sailors sit before a fire

SEAMAN:  And then I told her I had had enough.

                         Sailors laugh
                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  You!

SEAMAN:  What do you want?

DRACULA:  Your master, quickly.  Quickly!

                         Enter Captain

DRACULA:  You are the captain of the Czarina Catherine?

CAPTAIN:  I am.

DRACULA:  You sail for the mouth of the Danube on the morning
tide?

CAPTAIN:  What if I do?

DRACULA:  You have some cargo and a passenger.

CAPTAIN:  Where is he?

DRACULA:  Myself...to Varna.

CAPTAIN:  We do not go to Varna.

DRACULA:  (tosses Captain a bag of money)

CAPTAIN:  To Varna.

                           MEANWHILE
                        Renfield's Cell
     Seward addresses Renfield, still wearing strait jacket

SEWARD:  What is it?  What happened, Renfield?

RENFIELD:  Varna.  Varna.

SEWARD:  Varna?

                        LATE THAT NIGHT
                      Van Helsing's Study
            Van Helsing, Morris, Harker consult map

HARKER:  Varna.

MORRIS:  Yes, here it is.  It's a small port on the Black Sea.

HARKER:  I've got it.  Look.  He could travel from there to
Transylvania.  But with a load like that, it would take him
three weeks.

HELSING:  You could get to the castle first...in one week.
Sanctify every grave.  Leave it barren and useless as a refuge
before he arrives.

HARKER:  If we go, what about Mina?

HELSING:  I shall guard her with my life.

                        Renfield's Cell
               Seward attempts to awaken Renfield

SEWARD:  Dead?

                      VERY LATE THAT NIGHT
                      Van Helsing's Study
          Van Helsing reads while Mina sleeps on couch
                Offstage:  Sound of door closing

HELSING:  Who is there?

                         Enter Dracula

HELSING:  You!  All my life I have studied the black arts.  It's
strange to finally confront the Prince of Darkness himself.

DRACULA:  You have learnt much.  You can do nothing.

                  Dracula advances toward Mina
          Van Helsing grabs a poker from the fireplace
            and burns a flaming cross in the carpet

                          Exit Dracula

                 *********************************

                    T R A N S Y L V A N I A
                        TWO WEEKS LATER
                  The Crypt at Castle Dracula
         Harker and Morris stake the three vampiresses
                Harker sanctifies Dracula's tomb

HARKER:  Now then, there's only one task left...to find Dracula
himself.

                          L O N D O N
                      Van Helsing's Study
           Van Helsing reads while Mina lies on couch

MINA:  Is there any news?

HELSING:  Not yet.

MINA:  Tell me, professor.  If the Count is on his way home,
what have we to fear?

HELSING:  Mina, my dear, whilst the Count lives, time and space
have little meaning.  We can only pray.

                    T R A N S Y L V A N I A
                        A FEW DAYS LATER
                         Castle Dracula
          Enter gypsies carting Dracula in his coffin
        Harker and Morris drop boulders from castle wall
                        Gypsies retreat
    Harker and Morris open Dracula's coffin and set it afire
                          Dracula dies

                            THE END
