year	2005
imdb score	6.4
meta score	43
genre	Action
genre	Comedy
genre	Horror
genre	Thriller
keyword	bar
keyword	monster
keyword	covered in blood
keyword	shot to death
keyword	raised middle finger
keyword	harbinger of death
keyword	blood
keyword	introduction
keyword	cult film
keyword	jackass
keyword	mechanic
keyword	vomit
keyword	life expectancy
keyword	scene during end credits
keyword	throat slitting
keyword	slime
keyword	severed head
keyword	corpse
keyword	dark comedy
keyword	loss of loved one
keyword	hole in wall
keyword	genital mutilation
keyword	gore
keyword	prostitute
keyword	death of husband
keyword	hand through chest
keyword	monster sex
keyword	heroine
keyword	exploding head
keyword	explosion
keyword	shot in the chest
keyword	loss of child
keyword	accidental shooting
keyword	breaking through a door
keyword	lighter
keyword	playing pool
keyword	face ripped off
keyword	blood spurting
keyword	child killed by animal
keyword	eye ripped out
keyword	molotov cocktail
keyword	violence
keyword	first of series
keyword	oral rape
keyword	squealing
keyword	man eating monster
keyword	splatter
keyword	dead woman
keyword	single mother
keyword	one word title
keyword	heart attack
keyword	child eaten
keyword	hiding in a bathroom
keyword	hole through torso
keyword	crushed to death
keyword	old man
keyword	woman hitting a man
keyword	cigarette smoking
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	wilhelm scream
keyword	whimper
keyword	bartender
keyword	wheelchair
keyword	head bitten off
keyword	maggot
keyword	boy in a wheelchair
keyword	obscene finger gesture
keyword	basement
keyword	hand through head
keyword	eye gouging
keyword	cable
keyword	death spasm
keyword	self mutilation
keyword	roadkill
keyword	old woman
keyword	piercing ripped out
keyword	exploding body
keyword	alcohol
keyword	castration
keyword	raped by a monster
keyword	bare chested male
keyword	pistol
keyword	girl in bra and panties
keyword	shot in the foot
keyword	knocked out with a gun butt
keyword	tooth
keyword	shotgun
keyword	decapitation
keyword	pot smoking
keyword	hit by a door
keyword	severed foot
keyword	child murder
keyword	beaten to death
keyword	held at gunpoint
keyword	blood on camera lens
keyword	black comedy
keyword	monster rape
keyword	anal sex
keyword	severed leg
keyword	weed
keyword	crying
keyword	b movie
keyword	raped by monster
keyword	boy
keyword	arson
keyword	wedding ring
keyword	foot blown off
keyword	betrayal
keyword	eaten alive
keyword	death of child
keyword	death of son
keyword	
cast	Balthazar Getty	Bozo
cast	Henry Rollins	Coach
cast	Navi Rawat	Heroine
cast	Judah Friedlander	Beer Guy
cast	Josh Zuckerman	Hot Wheels
cast	Jason Mewes	Edgy Cat
cast	Jenny Wade	Honey Pie
cast	Krista Allen	Tuffy
cast	Clu Gulager	Bartender
cast	Anthony 'Treach' Criss	Vet
cast	Eric Dane	Hero
cast	Chauntae Davies	Drunk Girl
cast	Diane Ayala Goldner	Harley Mom
cast	Somah Haaland	Charlie
cast	Tyler Patrick Jones	Cody
cast	Mike J. Regan	Papa Beast
cast	Eileen Ryan	Grandma
cast	Hannah Schick	Finger Girl
cast	Gary J. Tunnicliffe	Mama Beast
cast	Duane Whitaker	Boss Man
