year	1981
imdb score	6.7
meta score	N/A
genre	Adventure
genre	Animation
genre	Fantasy
genre	Sci-Fi
keyword	girl
keyword	heavy metal
keyword	anthology
keyword	pentagon
keyword	bomber
keyword	taxi
keyword	segments
keyword	sphere
keyword	future
keyword	robot
keyword	secretary
keyword	trial
keyword	taxi driver
keyword	alien
keyword	drug use
keyword	human sacrifice
keyword	canadian science fiction
keyword	2d animation
keyword	m√©tal hurlant
keyword	satire
keyword	warrior
keyword	giant fossil
keyword	animated nudity
keyword	based on comic
keyword	breasts
keyword	spacecraft
keyword	accidental death
keyword	death ray
keyword	bloody body of child
keyword	surrealism
keyword	good versus evil
keyword	woman disintegrated
keyword	transformation
keyword	cult film
keyword	sex with robot
keyword	sex
keyword	sorcery
keyword	female whipping
keyword	obscene finger gesture
keyword	female nudity
keyword	actor playing multiple roles
keyword	midnight movie
keyword	blood
keyword	female frontal nudity
keyword	pilot
keyword	rock music
keyword	chase
keyword	flying car
keyword	new york city
keyword	title same as book
keyword	slapstick
keyword	sadomasochism
keyword	invulnerability
keyword	cult film
keyword	marriage
keyword	episodic structure
keyword	impaled child
keyword	cynicism
keyword	archeologist
keyword	sword
keyword	dark heroine
keyword	flying saucer
keyword	alien abduction
keyword	mixed marriage
keyword	softcore
keyword	ufo
keyword	alternative reality
keyword	space station
keyword	black comedy
keyword	green blood
keyword	massacre
keyword	female warrior
keyword	sexual fantasy
keyword	robot human relationship
keyword	betrayal
keyword	adult animation
keyword	teenage boy
keyword	abduction
keyword	voice over narration
keyword	rotoscoping
keyword	murder
keyword	saving the world mission
keyword	rock 'n' roll
keyword	nudity
keyword	anti hero
keyword	decapitation
keyword	violence
keyword	child murder
keyword	based on comic book
keyword	s&m
keyword	animated zombie horror
keyword	gore
keyword	extraterrestrial
keyword	zombie
keyword	mysticism
keyword	
cast	Don Francks	Grimaldi
cast	Caroline Semple	Girl
cast	Richard Romanus	Harry Canyon
cast	Susan Roman	Girl
cast	Al Waxman	Rudnick
cast	Harvey Atkin	Alien
cast	John Candy	Desk Sergeant
cast	Glenis Wootton Gross	Whore
cast	Marilyn Lightstone	Whore
cast	Jackie Burroughs	Katherine
cast	Martin Lavut	Ard
cast	August Schellenberg	Norl
cast	John Vernon	Prosecutor
cast	Eugene Levy	Sternn
cast	Joe Flaherty	Lawyer
cast	Rodger Bumpass	Hanover Fiste
cast	Douglas Kenney	Regolian
cast	George Touliatos	Pilot
cast	Zal Yanovsky	Navigator
cast	Patty Dworkin	Woman Reporter
cast	Warren Munson	Senator
cast	Alice Playten	Gloria
cast	Harold Ramis	Zeke
cast	Vlasta Vrana	Barbarian Leader
cast	Mavor Moore	Elder
cast	Thor Bishopric	Boy
cast	Len Doncheff	Barbarian
cast	Cedric Smith	Bartender
cast	Joseph Golland	Councilman
cast	Charles Jolliffe	Councilman
cast	Ned Conlon	Councilman
cast	Percy Rodrigues	Loknar
