year	2003
imdb score	8.2
meta score	90
genre	Adventure
genre	Animation
genre	Comedy
genre	Family
keyword	fish
keyword	dentist
keyword	fish tank
keyword	great barrier reef
keyword	ocean
keyword	short term memory loss
keyword	harbor
keyword	shark
keyword	jellyfish
keyword	diver
keyword	friend
keyword	escape
keyword	turtle
keyword	underwater
keyword	boat
keyword	clownfish
keyword	predator
keyword	widower
keyword	talking animal
keyword	coral reef
keyword	redemption
keyword	lighthouse
keyword	character's point of view camera shot
keyword	separation from family
keyword	escape attempt
keyword	sink
keyword	support group
keyword	dolphin
keyword	prologue
keyword	second chance
keyword	regret
keyword	e bay
keyword	wildlife
keyword	loss of wife
keyword	peer pressure
keyword	accidental hero
keyword	explosion
keyword	sunken ship
keyword	drain
keyword	scene during end credits
keyword	father son reunion
keyword	coral
keyword	torpedo
keyword	head butt
keyword	father son relationship
keyword	sea mine
keyword	seagull
keyword	abyss
keyword	tooth extraction
keyword	aquarium
keyword	egg
keyword	blowfish
keyword	handicapped
keyword	filth
keyword	marina
keyword	faked death
keyword	search
keyword	literacy
keyword	starfish
keyword	reflection
keyword	talking in sleep
keyword	sydney australia
keyword	teamwork
keyword	loss of son
keyword	sydney opera house
keyword	field trip
keyword	pelican
keyword	missing child
keyword	protective father
keyword	no opening credits
keyword	scuba diving
keyword	cgi film
keyword	buoy
keyword	pacific ocean
keyword	mask
keyword	father son estrangement
keyword	trust
keyword	impressionist
keyword	death of wife
keyword	seahorse
keyword	sydney harbor bridge
keyword	computer animation
keyword	single father
keyword	ocean current
keyword	protective male
keyword	blockbuster
keyword	2000s
keyword	pixar animated film
keyword	crab
keyword	manta ray
keyword	whale
keyword	joke
keyword	flashback
keyword	surprise after end credits
keyword	directions
keyword	courage
keyword	motorboat
keyword	subjective camera
keyword	initiation
keyword	friendship
keyword	cleaner shrimp
keyword	overprotective father
keyword	fable
keyword	barracuda
keyword	fishing boat
keyword	squid
keyword	cartoon fish
keyword	pet as gift
keyword	character name in title
keyword	surprise ending
cast	Albert Brooks	Marlin
cast	Ellen DeGeneres	Dory
cast	Alexander Gould	Nemo
cast	Willem Dafoe	Gill
cast	Brad Garrett	Bloat
cast	Allison Janney	Peach
cast	Austin Pendleton	Gurgle
cast	Stephen Root	Bubbles
cast	Vicki Lewis	Deb / Flo
cast	Joe Ranft	Jacques
cast	Geoffrey Rush	Nigel
cast	Andrew Stanton	Crush
cast	Elizabeth Perkins	Coral
cast	Nicholas Bird	Squirt
cast	Bob Peterson	Mr. Ray
cast	Barry Humphries	Bruce
cast	Eric Bana	Anchor
cast	Bruce Spence	Chum
cast	Bill Hunter	Dentist
cast	LuLu Ebeling	Darla
cast	Jordan Ranft	Tad
cast	Erica Beck	Pearl
cast	Erik Per Sullivan	Sheldon
cast	John Ratzenberger	Fish School
