year	2004
imdb score	6.9
meta score	64
genre	Comedy
keyword	high school
keyword	friend
keyword	class
keyword	class president
keyword	mustache
keyword	mexico
keyword	idaho
keyword	jock
keyword	girl
keyword	van
keyword	singer
keyword	milk
keyword	bracelet
keyword	chicken
keyword	photographer
keyword	convertible
keyword	cow
keyword	dancer
keyword	mexican american
keyword	farmer
keyword	wig
keyword	reference to pegasus
keyword	school dance
keyword	loser
keyword	overalls
keyword	action hero doll
keyword	sign language
keyword	doll
keyword	wolverine
keyword	bus station
keyword	liger the animal
keyword	dune buggy
keyword	bicycle
keyword	stallion
keyword	tater tots
keyword	very little camera movement
keyword	based on short film
keyword	cell phone
keyword	shaved head
keyword	salesman
keyword	basketball
keyword	school locker
keyword	animal abuse
keyword	kicking
keyword	interracial friendship
keyword	footsie under the table
keyword	high school election
keyword	note
keyword	interracial kiss
keyword	white trash
keyword	internet chatroom
keyword	classroom
keyword	locker room
keyword	microphone
keyword	gang
keyword	video tape
keyword	tiger
keyword	food
keyword	cake
keyword	satire
keyword	small town
keyword	pay phone
keyword	lion
keyword	track and field
keyword	medal
keyword	hit in the crotch
keyword	rifle
keyword	water fountain
keyword	famous line
keyword	keychain
keyword	wedding
keyword	photograph
keyword	school auditorium
keyword	nerd
keyword	wedding ceremony
keyword	juarez mexico
keyword	watching tv
keyword	drawing
keyword	online
keyword	chicken farm
keyword	watching a video
keyword	dance
keyword	school life
keyword	taekwondo
keyword	cafe
keyword	boy
keyword	rejection
keyword	hen
keyword	school bus
keyword	time travel
keyword	male to female footsie playing
keyword	teen movie
keyword	boy with glasses
keyword	motorcycle accident
keyword	bowling alley
keyword	chapstick
keyword	election
keyword	llama
keyword	roller skates
keyword	picnic
keyword	bully
keyword	dancing
keyword	name tag
keyword	belch
keyword	tetherball
keyword	cult film
keyword	steak
keyword	uncle nephew relationship
keyword	singing
keyword	reference to loch ness monster
keyword	surprise after end credits
keyword	lying about one's age
keyword	computer
keyword	boyfriend girlfriend relationship
keyword	family relationships
keyword	horse
keyword	model sailing ship
keyword	peer pressure
keyword	football player
keyword	grandmother grandson relationship
keyword	sand dune
keyword	bicycle accident
keyword	bowling
keyword	teenage boy
keyword	vest
keyword	piñata
keyword	telephone call
keyword	internet romance
keyword	corsage
keyword	restaurant
keyword	face slap
keyword	spanish accent
keyword	future farmers of america
keyword	killing an animal
keyword	nunchuck
keyword	friendship
keyword	title appears in writing
keyword	utah
keyword	interracial marriage
keyword	american football
keyword	internet
keyword	misfit
keyword	mother son relationship
keyword	egg
keyword	bullying
keyword	photography
keyword	interracial romance
keyword	brother brother relationship
keyword	shot in the head
keyword	cousin cousin relationship
keyword	prime rib
keyword	ham
keyword	f. f. a.
keyword	chicken farmer
keyword	shotgun
keyword	anti hero
keyword	camera
keyword	self defense
keyword	time machine
keyword	popular girl
keyword	mirror ball
keyword	cafeteria
keyword	blowing nose
keyword	cyberspace
keyword	independent film
keyword	character name in title
keyword	title spoken by character
keyword	
cast	Jon Heder	Napoleon Dynamite
cast	Jon Gries	Uncle Rico
cast	Aaron Ruell	Kip
cast	Efren Ramirez	Pedro
cast	Diedrich Bader	Rex
cast	Tina Majorino	Deb
cast	Sandy Martin	Grandma
cast	Haylie Duff	Summer Wheatly
cast	Trevor Snarr	Don
cast	Shondrella Avery	Lafawnduh
cast	Bracken Johnson	Randy
cast	Carmen Brady	Starla
cast	Ellen Dubin	Ilene
cast	J.C. Cunningham	Jock #1
cast	James Stevens	Jock #2
cast	Brian Petersen	Lance
cast	Brett Taylor	Nathan
cast	Thomas Lefler	Principal Svadean
cast	Elizabeth Miklavcic	Renae
cast	Scott Thomas	Sheldon
cast	Loria Badali	Shoney
cast	Emily Dunn	Trisha
cast	Jamen Gunnell	Vern
cast	Nanette Young	Corrina
cast	Walter Platz	Cashier
cast	Nano De Silva	Cholo #1
cast	Arturo De Silva	Cholo #2
cast	Pat Donahue	Farmer
cast	Dale Critchlow	Lyle
cast	Tom Adams	FFA Judge #1
cast	Eldean Holliday	FFA Judge #2
cast	Arlando Larsen	FFA Judge #3
cast	Mary Heers	Teacher
cast	T.J. Adams	Farm Boy #1
cast	Jake Visser	Farm Boy #2 / School Kid
cast	Brady Stokes	Farm Boy #3 / School Kid
cast	Thedora Peeterborg	Secretary #1
cast	Becky Demke	Secretary #2
cast	Yuka Ruell	Girl on Bike
cast	Cody Abrams	School Kid
cast	Jake Adams	School Kid
cast	Paul Adams	School Kid
cast	Cara Alder	School Kid
cast	Shonee Alder	School Kid
cast	Shontae Alder	School Kid
cast	Frederick Atkins	School Kid
cast	Derik Atkinson	School Kid
cast	Tami Auger	School Kid
cast	Amanda Austin	School Kid
cast	Brooke Beckstead	School Kid
cast	Madison Beckstead	School Kid
cast	Landon Bell	School Kid
cast	Heather Benson	School Kid
cast	Cindy Biggs	School Kid
cast	Jon Bliss	School Kid
cast	Kolton Bosen	School Kid
cast	Taylor Bosen	School Kid
cast	Hayley Bowen	School Kid
cast	Daniel Brewer	School Kid
cast	Michael Brewer	School Kid
cast	Ashely Buck	School Kid
cast	Jeremy Burns	School Kid
cast	Cherone Call	School Kid
cast	Shanda Call	School Kid
cast	Shawnee Call	School Kid
cast	Shelbee Call	School Kid
cast	Skylar Carver	School Kid
cast	Christy Checketts	School Kid
cast	Christina Child	School Kid
cast	Paige Christensen	School Kid
cast	Amy Christiansen	School Kid
cast	Jade Christiansen	School Kid
cast	Jane Christiansen	School Kid
cast	Shane Christiansen	School Kid
cast	Samantha Marsden	School Kid
cast	Summer Coburn	School Kid
cast	Brittney Cole	School Kid
cast	Tiffany Cole	School Kid
cast	Timothy Colvin	School KId
cast	O'Leah Corcorran	School Kid
cast	Arianna Crosland	School Kid
cast	Mandi Dalley	School Kid
cast	Sami Dalley	School Kid
cast	Brian Davis	School Kid
cast	Aaron Demke	School Kid
cast	Kim Demke	School Kid
cast	Isaac Demke	School Kid
cast	Tyler Dodge	School Kid
cast	Alison Downs	School Kid
cast	Mary Downs	School Kid
cast	Tyler Drury	School Kid
cast	Megan Earley	School Kid
cast	Leatrice Esplin	School Kid
cast	Roy Esplin	School Kid
cast	Charles Fetzer	School Kid
cast	William Fetzer	School Kid
cast	Kai Fetzer	School Kid
cast	Brittany Foster	School Kid
cast	Cassie Galloway	School Kid
cast	Allison Gamble	School Kid
cast	Emily Gamer	School Kid
cast	Hannah Gibby	School Kid
cast	Katherine Gibby	School Kid
cast	Kristen Gibby	School Kid
cast	Dakotah Gordon	School Kid
cast	Jenna Griffeth	School Kid
cast	Braden Hablin	School Kid
cast	Eden Hamblin	School Kid
cast	Kyle Hansen	School Kid
cast	Tyler Hansen	School Kid
cast	Evan Harris	School Kid
cast	Radine Harris	School Kid
cast	Alyssa Harrison	School Kid
cast	Megan Haslam	School Kid
cast	Jake Higley	School Kid
cast	Matt Hinrichs	School Kid
cast	Audrey Hinricks	School Kid
cast	Colton Hirschi	School Kid
cast	Kayla Hirschi	School Kid
cast	Cheryl Hobbs	School Kid
cast	Cody Hobbs	School Kid
cast	Sean Hobie	School Kid
cast	Elaina Horne	School Kid
cast	Debbie Hugie	School Kid
cast	Damon Hull	School Kid
cast	Ashley Jackson	School Kid
cast	Annette Jensen	School Kid
cast	Kevin Jensen	School Kid
cast	Marla Jensen	School Kid
cast	Ryan Jensen	School Kid
cast	Lacey Johnson	School Kid
cast	Karenina Jones	School Kid
cast	Kayleen Johnson	School Kid
cast	Dayne Keller	School Kid
cast	Kate Keller	School Kid
cast	Keri Kelley	School Kid
cast	Michael Kelley	School Kid
cast	Jake King	School Kid
cast	Jessica Koller	School Kid
cast	Amber Larsen	School Kid
cast	Kylie Larsen	School Kid
cast	Jacob Linderman	School Kid
cast	Jason Linderman	School Kid
cast	Rionnie Love	School Kid
cast	Mario Mainini	School Kid
cast	Tyler Martin	School Kid
cast	Justin Mason	School Kid
cast	Christina McBride	School Kid
cast	Nate McBride	School Kid
cast	Trevor Mendenhall	School Kid
cast	Levi Morrison	School Kid
cast	Nanetter Neilson	School Kid
cast	Marie Nelson	School Kid
cast	Christina Nicholas	School Kid
cast	Kimberley Nicholas	School Kid
cast	Elisabeth North	School Kid
cast	Jessica North	School Kid
cast	Josh North	School Kid
cast	Laura Oliverson	School Kid
cast	Shawn Oliverson	School Kid
cast	Jaclyn Olsen	School Kid
cast	Brandon Ostler	School Kid
cast	Skyler Ostler	School Kid
cast	Connie Owen	School Kid
cast	Sarah Owen	School Kid
cast	Jenna Packer	School Kid
cast	Shantell Parsons	School Kid
cast	McKell Peterson	School Kid
cast	Lynette Phillips	School Kid
cast	Sara Phillips	School Kid
cast	Justin Poppleton	School Kid
cast	Matt Porter	School Kid
cast	Marlene Prouse	School Kid
cast	Shane Pulsipher	School Kid
cast	Stephen Rallison	School Kid
cast	Parker Rawlings	School Kid
cast	Brianne Richardson	School Kid
cast	Sean Richmond	School Kid
cast	Kelsey Roach	School Kid
cast	Tara Nicole Jackson	School Kid
cast	Marc Roberts	School Kid
cast	Randi Roberts	School Kid
cast	Perrie Sagers	School Kid
cast	Lacey Saxton	School Kid
cast	Lindsey Saxton	School Kid
cast	Jenny Seamons	School Kid
cast	Katie Seamons	School Kid
cast	David Sharp	School Kid
cast	Preston Slaughter	School Kid
cast	Sabrena Smart	School Kid
cast	Lacey Smith	School Kid
cast	Charles Sparrow	School Kid
cast	Kelsey Stockdale	School Kid
cast	Telecia Stockdale	School Kid
cast	Jesse Stocks	School Kid
cast	Katrina Stocks	School Kid
cast	Vanessa Stratton	School Kid
cast	Chantel Talbot	School Kid
cast	Cierra Talbot	School Kid
cast	Gloria Talbot	School Kid
cast	Kolby Talbot	School Kid
cast	Rachel Talbot	School Kid
cast	Rosie Thomas	School Kid
cast	Kacie Thompson	School Kid
cast	Alisha Wakley	School Kid
cast	Cory Waters	School Kid
cast	Eli Wheeler	School Kid
cast	Brigham Wilcox	School Kid
cast	Lindsay Wilson	School Kid
cast	Lauren Womack	School Kid
cast	Crystal Wright	School Kid
cast	Becki Yeates	School Kid
cast	Paula Yeates	School Kid
cast	Patrick Zook	School Kid
cast	Adam Higley	School Kid
cast	Tyler Waters	School Kid
cast	Lisa Rodríguez	Girl who answered the phone when Napoleon first called Pedro's house
