year	1981
imdb score	6.7
meta score	N/A
genre	Action
genre	Adventure
genre	Fantasy
keyword	dragon
keyword	kingdom
keyword	apprentice
keyword	king
keyword	wizard
keyword	dancing
keyword	celebrating prematurely
keyword	cult film
keyword	attack
keyword	telekinesis
keyword	undressing someone
keyword	monster
keyword	one word title
keyword	human sacrifice
keyword	anvil
keyword	stealing credit
keyword	dark fantasy
keyword	sorcerer
keyword	wish fulfillment
keyword	knight
keyword	sword and sorcery
keyword	virgin sacrifice
keyword	girl disguised as boy
keyword	animal
keyword	dragonslayer
keyword	dragon infant
keyword	severed foot
keyword	resurrection
keyword	fire breathing dragon
keyword	mission
keyword	rescue
keyword	unlikely hero
keyword	stabbed in the chest
keyword	magic
keyword	female nudity
keyword	safety
cast	Peter MacNicol	Galen
cast	Caitlin Clarke	Valerian
cast	Ralph Richardson	Ulrich
cast	John Hallam	Tyrian
cast	Peter Eyre	Casiodorus Rex
cast	Albert Salmi	Greil
cast	Sydney Bromley	Hodge
cast	Chloe Salaman	Princess Elspeth
cast	Emrys James	Valerian's Father
cast	Roger Kemp	Horsrik
cast	Ian McDiarmid	Brother Jacopus
cast	Ken Shorter	Henchman
cast	Jason White	Henchman
cast	Yolande Palfrey	Victim
cast	Douglas Cooper	Urlander
cast	Alf Mangan	Urlander
cast	David Mount	Urlander
cast	James Payne	Urlander
cast	Chris Twinn	Urlander
