year	2003
imdb score	6.2
meta score	61
genre	Drama
genre	Horror
genre	Sci-Fi
genre	Thriller
keyword	rat
keyword	revenge
keyword	vermin
keyword	work
keyword	at work
keyword	murder
keyword	office
keyword	bully comeuppance
keyword	urban setting
keyword	humiliation
keyword	psychotic
keyword	cruel boss
keyword	loss of mother
keyword	suicide attempt
keyword	loner
keyword	eaten alive by rats
keyword	golf
keyword	portrait painting
keyword	pet killed
keyword	hit with a golf club
keyword	horror movie remake
keyword	urine
keyword	chewing
keyword	job termination
keyword	black comedy
keyword	bully
keyword	prank
keyword	lawyer
keyword	toilet
keyword	volkswagen beetle
keyword	employer employee relationship
keyword	disgruntled worker
keyword	wallet
keyword	internet pornography
keyword	blood
keyword	employee
keyword	vandalism
keyword	title appears in writing
keyword	fired from the job
keyword	dead father
keyword	bathroom
keyword	eaten alive
keyword	police
keyword	menial job
keyword	wake
keyword	animal trainer
keyword	domineering mother
keyword	supermarket
keyword	pest control
keyword	rat poison
keyword	duct tape
keyword	elevator
keyword	christmas
keyword	falling from height
keyword	animal attack
keyword	based on adaptation
keyword	corpse
keyword	financial ruin
keyword	talking to an animal
keyword	remake
keyword	part computer animation
keyword	threat of termination
keyword	revenge murder
keyword	animated title sequence
keyword	barricade
keyword	secretary
keyword	greed
keyword	adult lives at home
keyword	flat tire
keyword	abusive boss
keyword	cremated remains
keyword	watch
keyword	boss from hell
keyword	psychiatric hospital
keyword	basement
keyword	timidity
keyword	nervous breakdown
keyword	funeral home
keyword	insubordination
keyword	dog
keyword	mother son relationship
keyword	mental institution
keyword	cat
keyword	freight elevator
keyword	job
keyword	mouse trap
keyword	character name in title
keyword	title spoken by character
cast	Crispin Glover	Willard
cast	R. Lee Ermey	Mr. Martin
cast	Laura Harring	Cathryn
cast	Jackie Burroughs	Mrs. Stiles
cast	Ashlyn Gere	Ms. Leach
cast	William S. Taylor	Mr. Garter
cast	Edward Horn	Colquitt
cast	Gus Lynch	George Foxx
cast	Laara Sadiq	Janice Mantis
cast	David Parker	Detective Boxer
cast	Ty Olsson	Officer Salmon
cast	Kristen Cloke	Psychiatrist
