year	1985
imdb score	6.3
meta score	N/A
genre	Adventure
genre	Drama
genre	Horror
genre	Mystery
genre	Thriller
keyword	werewolf
keyword	murder
keyword	bridge
keyword	handicapped boy
keyword	firework
keyword	barbecue
keyword	wheelchair
keyword	bleeding from eyes
keyword	voice over narration
keyword	bare chested male
keyword	kite
keyword	dream sequence
keyword	gazebo
keyword	looking at self in mirror
keyword	fire poker
keyword	forest
keyword	beer
keyword	title appears in writing
keyword	glue
keyword	townsfolk
keyword	garter snake
keyword	evil priest
keyword	baseball game
keyword	mysterious letter
keyword	unwanted pregnancy
keyword	drunkenness
keyword	motorcycle
keyword	mud puddle
keyword	paraplegic
keyword	severed head
keyword	character says i love you
keyword	small town sheriff
keyword	carnival
keyword	curfew
keyword	product placement
keyword	wanting a divorce
keyword	american flag
keyword	matches
keyword	stabbed in the stomach
keyword	blood
keyword	covered bridge
keyword	priest
keyword	redneck
keyword	church
keyword	gun
keyword	subjective camera
keyword	barbershop
keyword	gash in the face
keyword	eyepatch
keyword	sitting on a park bench
keyword	reverse footage
keyword	self sacrifice
keyword	full moon
keyword	grocery cart
keyword	clawed to death
keyword	sitting in a tree
keyword	blood spatter
keyword	pantyhose
keyword	greenhouse
keyword	serial killer
keyword	uncle nephew relationship
keyword	deserted town
keyword	leg in cast
keyword	werewolf transformation
keyword	child uses gun
keyword	railroad worker
keyword	cigarette smoking
keyword	amazing grace hymn
keyword	rifle
keyword	demagogue
keyword	town square
keyword	shot in the eye
keyword	corpse
keyword	cards
keyword	shotgun
keyword	halloween
keyword	towel covered head
keyword	falling through the floor
keyword	jumping through a window
keyword	sleeping pills
keyword	flask
keyword	scream
keyword	chase
keyword	professional wrestling
keyword	kite flying
keyword	ground fog
keyword	brass band
keyword	father son relationship
keyword	child murder
keyword	hit with a chair
keyword	tool shed
keyword	ramp
keyword	hit with a baseball bat
keyword	no trespassing sign
keyword	escape out a window
keyword	magnum
keyword	reflection in car mirror
keyword	mass murder
keyword	breaking a mirror
keyword	pistol
keyword	rainstorm
keyword	bear trap
keyword	decapitation
keyword	stabbed in the chest
keyword	suicide attempt
keyword	screaming girl
keyword	bandage over eye
keyword	home invasion
keyword	mud
keyword	soda can
keyword	reference to stephen king
keyword	alcoholic
keyword	revenge
keyword	power failure
keyword	police investigation
keyword	baseball bat
keyword	beaten to death
keyword	death of cast member
keyword	gas station
keyword	head bashed in
keyword	crutches
keyword	brother sister relationship
keyword	death of child
keyword	based on novel
keyword	independent film
keyword	title spoken by character
cast	Gary Busey	Uncle Red
cast	Everett McGill	Reverend Lowe
cast	Corey Haim	Marty Coslaw
cast	Megan Follows	Jane Coslaw
cast	Robin Groves	Nan Coslaw
cast	Leon Russom	Bob Coslaw
cast	Terry O'Quinn	Sheriff Joe Haller
cast	Bill Smitrovich	Andy Fairton
cast	Joe Wright	Brady Kincaid
cast	Kent Broadhurst	Herb Kincaid
cast	Heather Simmons	Tammy Sturmfuller
cast	James A. Baffico	Milt Sturmfuller
cast	Rebecca Fleming	Mrs. Sturmfuller
cast	Lawrence Tierney	Owen Knopfler
cast	William Newman	Virgil Cuts
cast	Sam Stoneburner	Mayor O'Banion
cast	Lonnie Moore	Billy McLaren
cast	Rick Pasotto	Aspinall
cast	Cassidy Eckert	Girl
cast	Wendy Walker	Stella Randolph
cast	Michael Lague	Stella's Boyfriend
cast	Myra Mailloux	Stella's Mother
cast	William Brown	Bobby Robertson
cast	Herb Harton	Elmer Zinneman
cast	David Hart	Pete Sylvester
cast	Graham Smith	Porter Zinneman
cast	Paul Butler	Edgar Rounds
cast	Crystal Field	Maggie Andrews
cast	Julius LeFlore	Smokey
cast	Roxanne Aalam	Uncle Red's Girl
cast	Pearl Jones	Mrs. Thayer
cast	Ish Jones Jr.	Mr. Thayer
cast	Steven White	Outfielder
cast	Conrad McLaren	Mac
cast	Tovah Feldshuh	Older Jane
cast	James Gammon	Arnie Westrum
