year	1981
imdb score	7.6
meta score	70
genre	Horror
keyword	woods
keyword	evil
keyword	cabin
keyword	tape
keyword	friend
keyword	cabin in the woods
keyword	book
keyword	book of the dead
keyword	necronomicon
keyword	forest
keyword	night
keyword	evil dead
keyword	dismemberment
keyword	tree
keyword	demon
keyword	cellar
keyword	part stop motion
keyword	bridge
keyword	raped by trees
keyword	animate tree
keyword	basement
keyword	sex with foreign object
keyword	bloodshed
keyword	vile
keyword	gross out comedy
keyword	stabbed in the back
keyword	h.p. lovecraft
keyword	grave
keyword	very little dialogue
keyword	axe
keyword	demonic undead
keyword	severed foot
keyword	fighting with self
keyword	pain
keyword	black humor
keyword	pencil stabbing
keyword	supernatural horror
keyword	car
keyword	blood
keyword	chainsaw
keyword	american horror
keyword	dead man
keyword	unusual sex act
keyword	wood home
keyword	levitation
keyword	beheading
keyword	first of series
keyword	dark fantasy
keyword	evil spirit
keyword	demonic possession
keyword	amputation
keyword	character's point of view camera shot
keyword	pixelation
keyword	michigan
keyword	eye gouging
keyword	horror movie remade
keyword	1980s
keyword	decomposing body
keyword	fireplace
keyword	group of friends
keyword	melting face
keyword	attacked by a plant
keyword	stabbed in the leg
keyword	dark comedy
keyword	stalker
keyword	low budget film
keyword	blockbuster
keyword	severed leg
keyword	decapitation
keyword	self mutilation
keyword	isolation
keyword	self cannibalism
keyword	object in vagina
keyword	black comedy
keyword	cult director
keyword	severed extremity
keyword	stabbed to death
keyword	boyfriend girlfriend relationship
keyword	reverse footage
keyword	death
keyword	no ending
keyword	three word title
keyword	supernatural rape
keyword	snake
keyword	violence against women
keyword	graphic rape
keyword	cult movie cast
keyword	blood spatter
keyword	burial
keyword	based on short film
keyword	stress
keyword	psychotronic
keyword	sex with a foreign object
keyword	hand
keyword	river
keyword	grandfather clock
keyword	death of loved one
keyword	female nudity
keyword	haunting
keyword	occult
keyword	violence
keyword	severed head
keyword	critically acclaimed
keyword	brother sister relationship
keyword	book of evil
keyword	abuse against women
keyword	perverse sex
keyword	anti hero
keyword	shot in the head
keyword	stop motion animation
keyword	giant plant
keyword	key
keyword	supernatural power
keyword	cult figure
keyword	nudity
keyword	dance
keyword	tragic love
keyword	gore
keyword	room
keyword	ancient book
keyword	female victim
keyword	dark humor
keyword	murder
keyword	shotgun
keyword	subjective camera
keyword	siege
keyword	shovel through head
keyword	absurd violence
keyword	stabbed in the arm
keyword	video nasty
keyword	stabbing
keyword	spirit world
keyword	sexual abuse
keyword	sexual assault
keyword	group of five
keyword	necklace
keyword	cult film
keyword	student
keyword	bare breasts
keyword	dead girl
keyword	rape
keyword	destruction
keyword	shooting
keyword	unnatural phenomenon
keyword	bloodbath
keyword	possession
keyword	trip
keyword	kiss
keyword	cult film
keyword	tongue in cheek
keyword	over the top
keyword	severed hand
keyword	sexual violence
keyword	blood on camera lens
keyword	remake
keyword	sadism
keyword	ghost
keyword	independent film
keyword	surprise ending
keyword	
cast	Bruce Campbell	Ashley 'Ash' J. Williams
cast	Ellen Sandweiss	Cheryl
cast	Richard DeManincor	Scott
cast	Betsy Baker	Linda
cast	Theresa Tilly	Shelly
cast	Philip A. Gillis	Fake Shemp
cast	Dorothy Tapert	Fake Shemp
cast	Cheryl Guttridge	Fake Shemp
cast	Barbara Carey	Fake Shemp
cast	David Horton	Fake Shemp
cast	Wendall Thomas	Fake Shemp
cast	Don Long	Fake Shemp
cast	Stu Smith	Fake Shemp
cast	Kurt Rauf	Fake Shemp
cast	Ted Raimi	Fake Shemp
cast	Ivan Raimi	Fake Shemp
cast	Bill Vincent	Fake Shemp
cast	Mary Beth Tapert	Fake Shemp
cast	Scott Spiegel	Fake Shemp
cast	John Cameron	Fake Shemp
cast	Joanne Kruse	Fake Shemp
cast	Gwen Cochanski	Fake Shemp
cast	Debie Jarczewski	Fake Shemp
cast	Bob Dorian	Person on Recorder
cast	Sam Raimi	Hitchhiking Fisherman / Evil Force
cast	Robert G. Tapert	Local Yokel
