This script was transcribed by BJ Kuehl.  Any corrections
should be sent to her at bj@csd.uwm.edu.



                              1931

                         D R A C U L A

                              cast

          Count Dracula....................Bela Lugosi
          Mina Seward...................Helen Chandler
          John Harker....................David Manners
          Renfield.........................Dwight Frye
          Van Helsing.................Edward van Sloan
          Dr. Seward...................Herbert Bunston
          Lucy Western....................Frances Dade

                    T R A N S Y L V A N I A

                        EARLY AFTERNOON
             In a Coach in the Carpathian Mountains
             A young woman reads to four passengers
                     from a travel brochure

YOUNG WOMAN:  "Among the rugged peaks that frown down on the
Borgo Pass are found crumbling castles of a bigone age."

               The woman is knocked from her seat
                     by the jostling coach

RENFIELD:  I say, driver, a bit slower.

MAN:  Oh, no!  Must reach the inn before sundown!

MADAM:  And why, pray?

MAN:  It is Walpurghis Night, the night of evil!  Nosferatu!

MAN'S WIFE:  (places her hand over his mouth)

MAN:  On this night, madam, the                    and to the
Virgin we pray.

                         LATE AFTERNOON
                         A Village Inn
              Villagers anxiously greet the coach

RENFIELD:  I say, porter, don't take my luggage down.  I'm going
on to Borgo Pass tonight.

PORTER:  (speaks in Hungarian to the Innkeeper)

RENFIELD:  No, no, please, put that back up there.

INNKEEPER:  The driver, he is afraid.  Walpurghis night.  Good
fellow, he is.  He wants me to ask if you can wait and go on
after sunrise.

RENFIELD:  Well, I'm sorry, but there's a carriage meeting me at
Borgo Pass at midnight.

INNKEEPER:  Borgo Pass?

RENFIELD:  Yes.

INNKEEPER:  Whose carriage?

RENFIELD:  Count Dracula's.

INNKEEPER:  Count Dracula's?

RENFIELD:  Yes.

INNKEEPER:  Castle Dracula?

RENFIELD:  Yes, that's where I'm going.

INNKEEPER:  To the castle?

RENFIELD:  Yes.

INNKEEPER:  No, you mustn't go there.  We people of the
mountains believe at the castle there are vampires.  Dracula and
his wives!  They take the form of wolves and bats.  They leave
their coffins at night, and they feed on the blood of the living.

RENFIELD:  But that's all superstition.  Why I...I can't
understand why...

INNKEEPER:  Look, the sun!  When it is gone, they leave their
coffins.  Come, we must go indoors.

RENFIELD:  But, wait.  I mean, just a minute.  What I'm trying
to say is that I'm not afraid.  I've explained to the driver
that it's a matter of business with me.  I've got to go, really.
 Well, good night.

INNKEEPER'S WIFE:  Wait!  Please, if you must go, wear this for
your mother's sake.

    Innkeeper's wife places crucifix around Renfield's neck

INKEEPER'S WIFE:  It will protect you.

                  Exit coach carrying Renfield

                            SUNDOWN
                  The Crypt at Castle Dracula
    Dracula and three vampiresses awaken from their coffins

                            MIDNIGHT
                           Borgo Pass
                    Renfield's coach arrives
          Renfield dismounts and the coach speeds away

RENFIELD:  (approaches awaiting coach)  The coach from Count
Dracula?

COACHDRIVER:  (motions to get in but does not speak)

RENFIELD:  (enters coach)

                     The coach speeds away.

RENFIELD:  (peering out the coach window)  Hey, driver!

               The coach is led by a flying bat.

                        LATER THAT NIGHT
                 The entrance to Castle Dracula
                 Renfield arrives at the castle

RENFIELD:  I say, driver, what do you mean by going at this...?
                       There is no driver
                  A door into the castle opens
                   Renfield enters the castle

                     Inside Castle Dracula
                         Enter Renfield
           Enter Dracula down a long flight of stairs

DRACULA:  I am...Dracula.

RENFIELD:  It's really good to see you.  I don't know what
happened to the driver and my luggage and...well...with all
this, I thought I was in the wrong place.

Dracula:  I bid you welcome.

                     Dracula heads upstairs
                      Offstage:  Wolf call

DRACULA:  Listen to them...children of the night.  What music
they make!

                   Renfield follows Dracula,
               breaking a path through spiderweb

DRACULA:  A spider spinning his web for the unwary fly.  The
blood...is the life, Mr. Renfield.

RENFIELD:  Why, yes.

                     Renfield's Bedchamber
                   Enter Dracula and Renfield

DRACULA:  I'm sure you will find this part of my castle more
inviting.

RENFIELD:  Oh, rather!  It's quite different from outside.  Oh,
and the fire!  It's so cheerful.

DRACULA:  I didn't know but that you might be hungry.

RENFIELD:  Thank you.  That's very kind of you.  But I'm a bit
worried about my luggage.  You see, all your papers were in...

DRACULA:  I took the liberty of having your luggage brought up.
Allow me.

RENFIELD:  Oh, yes.  Thanks.

DRACULA:  I trust you have kept your coming here...a secret?

RENFIELD:  I've followed your instructions implicitly.

DRACULA:  Excellent, Mr. Renfield, excellent.  And now, if
you're not too fatiqued, I would like to discuss the lease on
Carfax Abbey.

RENFIELD:  Oh, yes.  Everything is in order, awaiting your
signature.  Here is the lease.  I hope I've brought enough
labels for your luggage.

DRACULA:  I am taking with me only three...boxes.

RENFIELD:  Very well.

DRACULA:  I have chartered a ship to take us to England.  We
will be leaving...tomorrow...evening.

RENFIELD:  Everything will be ready.

DRACULA:  (pointing to bed) I hope you will find this
comfortable.

RENFIELD:  Thanks.  It looks very inviting.

            Renfield cuts his finger on a paperclip.

RENFIELD:  Ouch!

DRACULA:  (stealthily approaches Renfield)

         Renfield's crucifix falls over the cut finger.

DRACULA:  (turns quickly away)

RENFIELD:  Oh, it's nothing serious.  Just a small cut from that
paperclip.  It's just a scratch.

DRACULA:  (pouring a glass of wine)  This...is very old wine.  I
hope you will like it.

RENFIELD:  Aren't you drinking?

DRACULA:  I never drink...wine.

RENFIELD:  Well, it's delicious.

DRACULA:  And, now, I'll leave you.

RENFIELD:  Well, good night.

DRACULA:  Good night, Mr. Renfield.

                          Exit Dracula

RENFIELD:  (opens windows)

                           Enter Bat

RENFIELD:  (faints)

              Enter three vampiresses and Dracula

DRACULA:  (motions vampiresses back)

                  Dracula approaches Renfield

        **************************************************
                      SEVERAL WEEKS LATER

               A B O A R D   T H E   V E S T A --
               B O U N D   F O R   E N G L A N D

                          NEAR SUNDOWN
                            On Deck
                The crew battles a raging storm

                          In the hold
                    Renfield awakens Dracula

RENFIELD:  Master, the sun is gone.

DRACULA:  (leaves his coffin)

RENFIELD:  You will keep your promise when we get to London,
won't you, master?  You will see that I get lives...not human
lives but small ones...with blood in them.  I'll be loyal to
you, master.  I'll be loyal.

                    Exit Dracula to the deck

       ***********************************************

                         E N G L A N D

                        THE NEXT MORNING
                         Whitby Harbor
                    On the deck of the Vesta

VOICE OF MAN 1:  Here now!  Here now, get back!  Nobody goes
aboard this here boat until the authorities are here.

VOICE OF MAN 2:  The captain dead, tied to the wheel.  Horrible
tragedy!  Horrible tragedy.

                          In the hold
             Renfield whispers to Dracula's coffin

RENFIELD:  Master, we're here!  You can't hear what I'm saying,
but we're here.  We're safe!

                            On deck

VOICE OF MAN 1:  They must've come through a terrible storm!

                   Offstage:  Renfield laughs

VOICE OF MAN 1:  What's that?  Why, it's come from that hatchway!

               Hatchway opens to reveal Renfield

RENFIELD:  (laughs)

VOICE OF MAN 1:  Why, he's mad!  Look at his eyes!  Why, the
man's gone crazy!

                   From the Whitby Newspaper
                          Late edition

            CREW OF CORPSES FOUND ON DERELECT VESSEL
            SCHOONER VESTA DRIFTS INTO WHITBY HARBOR
               AFTER STORM BEARING GRUESOME CARGO
              Sole survivor a raving maniac.  His
              craving  to devour ants,  flies and
              other small living things to obtain
              their blood, puzzles scientists. At
              present  he is under observation at
              Dr Seward's Sanitarium near London.

                       MANY NIGHTS LATER
                      A Sidewalk in London
         Dracula approaches young girl selling violets

FLOWERGIRL:  Violets!  Violets!  For your buttonhole, sir!
Here's a nice one.

DRACULA:  (drinks her blood)

FLOWERGIRL:  (screams)

                             LATER
                  A Symphony Theatre in London
               An usherette leads Dracula inside

DRACULA:  And after you've delivered the message, you will
remember nothing I now say.  Obey!

                        The Sewards' box
      Seward, Harker, Mina and Lucy listen to the symphony
                        Enter Usherette

USHERETTE:  Dr. Seward?

SEWARD:  Yes?

usherette:  You're wanted on the telephone.

SEWARD:  Thank you.  Well, excuse me.

MINA:  Oh, Father, if it's from home, will you say I'm spending
the night in town with Lucy?

SEWARD:  All right, dear.

                   Seward steps from the box

DRACULA:  Pardon me?

SEWARD:  Yes?

DRACULA:  I could not help overhearing your name.  Might I
inquire...if you are the Dr. Seward whose sanitarium is at
Whitby?

SEWARD:  Why, yes.

DRACULA:  I'm Count Dracula.  I have just leased Carfax Abbey.
I understand it adjoins your ground.

SEWARD:  Why yes, it does.  I'm very happy to make your
acquaintance.  May I present my daughter Mina...

MINA:  Count Dracula.

SEWARD:  ...Miss Western...

LUCY:  How do you do?

SEWARD:  ...and Mr. Harker.

HARKER:  How do you do?

SEWARD:  Count Dracula has just taken Carfax Abbey.

LUCY:  Oh, it will a relief to see life in those dismal old
windows!

SEWARD:  It will indeed.  Well, you will excuse me.  I'm wanted
on the telephone.

                          Exit Seward

HARKER:  The abbey could be very attractive, but I should
imagine it will need quite extensive repair.

DRACULA:  I shall do very little repairing.  It reminds me of
the broken battlements of my own castle...in Transylvania.

LUCY:  The abbey always reminds me of that old toast about
              "..........lofty timbers,
               The walls around are bare
               Echoing to our laughter
               As though the dead were there."

HARKER:  Nice little medley.

LUCY:  There's more, even nicer.
               "Pass a cup to the dead already,
               A glass to the next to die..."

MINA:  Oh, never mind the rest, dear.

DRACULA:  To die...to be really dead...that must be glorious.

MINA:  Why, Count Dracula!

DRACULA:  There are far worse things...awaiting man...than death.
                          Music begins

                        LATER THAT NIGHT
                         Lucy's Bedroom
        Mina prepares to leave as Lucy prepares for bed

MINA:  "It reminds me of the broken battlements of my own
castle...in Transylvania."  Oh, Lucy, you're so romantic!

LUCY:  Laugh all you like.  I think he's fascinating.

MINA:  Oh, I suppose he's all right, but give me someone a
little more normal.

LUCY:  Like John?

MINA:  Yes, dear, like John.

LUCY:  Count Dracula!  Transylvania!

MINA:  Well, Countess, I'll leave you to your Count and his
ruined abbey.  Good night, Lucy.

LUCY:  Good night, dear.

                           Exit Mina

LUCY:  (opens the windows)

             Dracula peers up at Lucy's open window
                   Lucy lies down on her bed
                           Enter bat

DRACULA:  (materializes and approaches Lucy)

                          THE NEXT DAY
                       An autopsy theatre

DOCTOR:  Another death!  Dr. Seward, when did Miss Western have
the last transfusion?

SEWARD:  About four hours ago.

DOCTOR:  An unnatural loss of blood which we've been powerless
to check.  On the throat of each victim, the same two marks.

                       SEVERAL DAYS LATER
              The Grounds of the Seward Sanitarium
                  Offstage:  Renfield screams

FEMALE PATIENT:  He probably wants his flies again.

                        Renfield's Room
                  Renfield pleads with Martin

RENFIELD:  No, Martin, please.  Please, don't, Martin.  No,
Martin, please.  Please, Martin.  No, Martin.  Oh, Martin,
please.  No, No, Martin, please.  No, Martin.  Martin, don't.

MARTIN:  Here, give it to me.

RENFIELD:  Don't throw my spider away from me.  Oh, Martin, oh!

MARTIN:  Ain't you ashamed, now, ain't ya?  Spiders now, ain't
it?  Flies ain't good enough?

RENFIELD:  Flies?  Flies?  Poor puny things.  Who wants to eat
flies?

MARTIN:  You do, you loony!

RENFIELD:  Not when I can get nice fat spiders.

MARTIN:  All right, have it your own way.

                           MEANWHILE
                 A Laboratory at the Sanitarium
     Van Helsing, Seward and doctors analyze a blood sample

HELSING:  Gentlemen, we are dealing with the undead.

DOCTOR:  Nosferatu!

HELSING:  Yes, nosferatu, the undead, the vampire.  The vampire
attacks the throat.  It leaves two little wounds, white with red
centers.  Dr. Seward, your patient Renfield, whose blood I have
just analyzed, is obsessed with the idea that he must devour
living things in order to sustain his own life.

SEWARD:  But Professor Van Helsing, modern medical science does
not admit of such a creature.  The vampire is a pure myth,
superstition.

HELSING:  I may be able to bring you proof that the superstition
of yesterday can become the scientific reality of today.

                      LATER THAT AFTERNOON
                        Seward's office
                 Van Helsing and Seward confer

SEWARD:  But Professor, Renfield's cravings have always been for
small living things.  Nothing human.

HELSING:  As far as we know, Doctor.  But you tell me that he
escapes from his room.  He's gone for hours.  Where does he go?
                   Enter Renfield and Martin

HELSING:  Well, Mr. Renfield, you are looking much better than
you did this morning when I arrived.

RENFIELD:  Thanks, I'm feeling much better.

HELSING:  I am here to help you.  You understand that, do you
not?

RENFIELD:  (shakes hands with Helsing)  Why, of course, and I am
very grateful.  (drops Helsing's hand)  Keep your filthy hands
to yourself!

SEWARD:  Now, now, Renfield.

RENFIELD:  Oh, Dr. Seward, send me away from this place.  Send
me far away!

HELSING:  Why are you so anxious to get away?

RENFIELD:  My cries at night.  They might disturb Miss Mina.

HELSING:  Yes?

RENFIELD:  They might give her bad dreams, Professor Van
Helsing, bad dreams.

                             SUNSET
                   The crypt at Carfax Abbey
                 Dracula rises from his coffin.

                           MEANWHILE
                        Seward's Office
        Van Helsing, Seward and Martin discuss Renfield
                      Offstage:  Wolf call

HELSING:  That sounded like a wolf.

SEWARD:  Yes, it did, but I hardly think there are wolves so
near London.

MARTIN:  He thinks they're wolves.  Me, I've heard 'em howl at
night before.  He thinks they're talking to him.  He howls and
howls back at 'em.  He's crazy!

HELSING:  I might have known.  I might have known.  We know why
the wolves talk, do we not, Mr. Renfield?  And we know how we
can make them stop.

            Van Helsing holds up a sprig of wolfbane

RENFIELD:  (screams and turns away)  You know too much to live,
Van Helsing.

SEWARD:  Now, now, Renfield.

HELSING:  We will get no more out of him now for a while.

SEWARD:  Take him away, Martin.

MARTIN:  On your way, old fly eater.

RENFIELD:  I'm warning you, Dr. Seward.  If you don't send me
away, you must answer for what will happen to Miss Mina!

SEWARD:  All right, Martin.

MARTIN:  Come along, now, come along.

SEWARD:  What was that herb that excited him so?

HELSING:  Wolfbane.  It is a plant that grows in central Europe.
 The natives there use it to protect themselves against vampires.

SEWARD:  Renfield reacted very violently to its scent.

HELSING:  Seward, I want you to have Renfield closely watched by
day and night, especially by night.

                           THAT NIGHT
               Renfield's Room at the Sanitarium
                Renfield lies in his bed, crying
             Enter Dracula under Renfield's window
                      Offstage: Wolf call

RENFIELD:  Yes, master.  Master, you've come back.  Oh, master,
please.  Please don't ask me to do that.  Don't.  Not her.
Please, please don't, master.  Don't, please.  Please.  Oh,
don't.

                        LATER THAT NIGHT
                         Mina's Bedroom
                  Mina lies asleep in her bed
                         Enter Dracula

                     SEVERAL EVENINGS LATER
                       The Seward Parlour
                  Mina and Harker sit on couch

MINA:  I laid in bed for quite a while...reading.  And just as I
was commencing to get drowsy, I heard dogs howling.  And when
the dream came, it seemed the whole room was filled with mist.
It was so thick, I could just see the lamp by the bed, a tiny
spark in the fog.  And then I saw two red eyes staring at me and
a white livid face came down out of the mist.  It came closer
and closer.  I felt breath on my face...and then, its lips!

HARKER:  Dear, it was only a dream.

                  Enter Van Helsing and Seward

MINA:  And then in the morning, I felt so weak.  It seemed as if
all the life had been drained out of me.

HARKER:  Darling, we're going to forget all about these dreams
and think about something cheerful, aren't we?

HELSING:  Allow me.

HARKER:  Certainly, Professor.

HELSING:  Think for a moment.  Is there anything that might have
brought this dream on?

MINA:  No.

HARKER:  (whispering to Seward)  Doctor, there's something
troubling Mina, something she won't tell us.

HELSING:  And the face in the dream...you say it seemed to come
closer and closer?  The lips touched you?  Where?  Is there
anything the matter with your throat?

MINA:  Why, no, but I...!

HELSING:  Permit me.

MINA:  Oh, no, please!

HELSING:  Yes...yes...How long have you had those little marks?

HARKER:  Marks?  Mina, why didn't you let us know?

HELSING:  Do not excite her.  Well, Miss Mina?

MINA:  Since the morning after the dream.

HARKER:  What could have caused them, Professor?

                           Enter Maid

MAID:  Count Dracula!

                         Enter Dracula

DRACULA:  It's good to see you back again, Doctor.  I heard you
had just arrived.  You, Miss Mina, you're looking
exceptionally...

HELSING:  Pardon me, Dr. Seward, but I think Miss Mina should go
to her room at once.

MINA:  Professor Van Helsing, I don't believe it's as important
as you seem to think it is.

SEWARD:  Excuse me.  Count Dracula...Professor Van Helsing.

DRACULA:  Van Helsing.  A most distinguished scientist whose
name we know...even in the wilds of Transylvania.

MINA:  I had a frightful dream a few nights ago, and I don't
seem to be able to get it out of my mind.

DRACULA:  I hope you haven't taken my stories too seriously?

HARKER:  Stories?

DRACULA:  Yes.  In my humble effort to amuse your fiance, Mr.
Harker, I was telling her some rather...grim tales of my far off
country.

HARKER:  I can imagine.

MINA:  Why, John!

         Harker opens cigarette case with mirrored top
      Van Helsing notices that Dracula casts no reflection

DRACULA:  I can quite understand Mr. Harker.  I'm sorry.

SEWARD:  I'm afraid it's quite serious.  My dear, I'm sure Count
Dracula will excuse you.  You must go to your room, as Professor
Van Helsing suggests.

MINA:  Oh, but really, father, I'm feeling quite well.

DRACULA:  You had better do...as your father advises.

         Harker notes that Dracula casts no reflection

MINA:  Very well.  Good night.  John.

DRACULA:  Miss Mina, may I call later to inquire how you are
feeling?

MINA:  Why, yes, thank you.

                           Exit Mina

DRACULA:  I'm sorry, Doctor.  My visit was so ill-timed.

SEWARD:  Not at all.

HELSING:  On the contrary, it may prove to be most enlightening.
 In fact, before you go, you can be of definite service.

DRACULA:  Anything I can do, gladly.

HELSING:  A moment ago, I stumbled upon a most amazing
phenomenon...something so incredible, I mistrust my own
judgement.  Look.

              Van Helsing holds mirror to Dracula

DRACULA:  (slaps mirror to the floor)  Dr. Seward, my humble
apology.  I dislike mirrors.  Van Helsing will explain.  For one
who has not lived even a single lifetime, you are a wise man,
Van Helsing.
                          Exit Dracula

HARKER:  Whew!

SEWARD:  What on earth caused that?

HARKER:  Did you see the look on his face?  Like a wild animal!

SEWARD:  Wild animal?  Like a madman!

HARKER:  What's that running across the lawn?  Looks like a huge
dog!

HELSING:  Or a wolf?

HARKER:  A wolf?

HELSING:  He was afraid we might follow.

SEWARD:  Follow?

HELSING:  Sometimes they take the form of wolves but generally
of bats.

HARKER:  What are you talking about?

HELSING:  Dracula.

HARKER:  But what's Dracula got to do with wolves and bats?

HELSING:  Dracula is our vampire.

SEWARD:  But surely, Professor.

HELSING:  The vampire casts no reflection in the glass.  That is
why Dracula smashed the mirror.

HARKER:  I don't mean to be rude but that's the sort of thing I
expect one of the patients here to say.

HELSING:  Yes, and that is what your English doctors would say,
your police.  The strength of the vampire is that people will
not believe in him.

                           MEANWHILE
                     Outside the Sanatarium
      Mina enters the garden where Dracula stands waiting

                       The Seward Parlour
              Van Helsing, Seward and Harker talk

HARKER:  But professor, vampires only exist in ghost stories.

HELSING:  The vampire, Mr. Harker, is a thing that lives after
its death by drinking the blood of the living.  It must have
blood or it dies.  Its power lasts only from sunset to sunrise.
During the hours of the day, it must rest in the earth in which
it was buried.

SEWARD:  But then, if Dracula were a vampire, he would have to
return every night to Transylvania.  That's impossible!

HELSING:  Then he must have brought his native soil with him.
Boxes of it.  Boxes of earth large enough for him to rest in.
                   Offstage:  Renfield laughs

SEWARD:  Renfield?  What are you doing there?  Come here.

                         Enter Renfield

SEWARD:  Did you hear what we were saying?

RENFIELD:  Yes, I heard something.  Enough.  Be guided by what
he says.  It's your only hope.  It's her only hope.  I begged
you to send me away, but you wouldn't.  Now it's too late.  It's
happened again.

SEWARD:  What's happened?

RENFIELD:  Take her away from here.  Take her away before...

                           Enter Bat

RENFIELD:  No, no, master.  I wasn't going to say anything.  I
told them nothing.  I'm loyal to you, master.

                    Harker shoos bat outside

HELSING:  What have you to do with Dracula?

RENFIELD:  Dracula?  I never even heard the name before.

HELSING:  You will die in torment if you die with innocent blood
on your soul.

RENFIELD:  Oh, no.  God will not damn a lunatic's soul.  He
knows that the powers of evil are too great for those of us with
weak minds.

                    Offstage:  Maid screams

MAID:  Oh, Mr. Harker!  Mr. Harker, it's 'orrible!

                  Enter Maid from the Terrace

MAID:  Oh, it's 'orrible!   Dr. Seward!  Miss Mina...out there
dead!

HARKER:  Out where?

MAID:  Out there!

         Exit Harker, Van Helsing and Seward to garden

RENFIELD:  (laughs)

MAID:  (faints)

                     On the Sanatarium Lawn
                Van Helsing and Seward find Mina

HARKER:  (carries Mina)

SEWARD:  Thank heavens, she's alive.  Thank heaven for that.

HELSING:  Alive, yes, but in greater danger for she's already
under his influence.

SEWARD:  Horrible, Van Helsing, horrible.  Incredible.

HELSING:  Incredible, perhaps, but we must...

    Van Helsing, Seward, Harker and Mina exit into the house
              Dracula peers out from behind a tree

                        LATER THAT NIGHT
                        A Park in London
               Policeman walks down the park path
                    Offstage:  A child cries
                   Exit Lucy into the shadows

                          THE NEXT DAY
                     The Seward Sanatarium
             Martin reads a newspaper to two nurses

MARTIN:  "...several attacks on small children committed after
dark by the mysterious woman in white took place last night.
Narratives of two small girls, each child describing a "bootiful
lady in white" who promised her chocolates, enticed her to a
secluded spot, and there bit her slightly in the throat.

NURSE:  Ghosts!

MARTIN:  Vampires.

                      LATE THAT AFTERNOON
                         Mina's Bedroom
        Van Helsing, Harker and Mina sit on the terrace

HELSING:  And then, Miss Mina?

HARKER:  How could she know anything about the woman in white?
It's bad enough for her to read it in the newspaper without...

HELSING:  Please, please, Mr. Harker.  And when was the next
time you saw Miss Lucy after she was buried?

                          Exit Harker

MINA:  I was downstairs on the terrace.  She came out of the
shadows and stood looking at me.  I started to speak to her, and
then I remembered she was dead.  The most horrible expression
came over her face.  She looked like a hungry animal...a wolf.
Then she turned and ran back into the dark.

HELSING:  Then you know the woman in white is...

MINA:  ...Lucy.

HELSING:  Miss Mina, I promise you that after tonight she will
remain at rest, her soul released from this horror.

                          Enter Harker

MINA:  If you can save Lucy's soul after death, promise me
you'll save mine.

HARKER:  Darling, you're not going to die, you're going to live.

MINA:  No, John, you mustn't touch me, and you mustn't kiss me
ever again.

HARKER:  What are you trying to say?

MINA:  You tell him.  You make him understand.  I can't.

                        Exit Van Helsing

MINA:  Professor?  It's all over, John, our love, our life
together.  Oh, no!  No, no, don't look at me like that.  I love
you, John...you...but this horror!  He wills it to me.

HELSING:  (calling from inside Mina's bedroom)  Mina, you must
come indoors.  You must.

                  Mina and Harker come inside

HARKER:  Do you know what you're doing to her, Professor?
You're driving her crazy.

HELSING:  Mr. Harker, that is what you should be worrying about.
 The last rays of the day's sun will soon be gone and another
night will be upon us.

                          Enter Seward

HARKER:  Dr. Seward, I'm taking Mina with me to London tonight
or I'll call in the police.

SEWARD:  But, John!

HARKER:  Mina, please get your bags packed.

HELSING:  Seward, I must be master here or I can do nothing.
Right, Miss Mina?  Both this room and your bedroom have been
prepared with wolfbane.  You will be safe if Dracula returns.

HARKER:  She'll be safe alright because she's going with me.
Mina, I will be waiting for you in the library.

                          Exit Harker

MINA:  Oh, John!  Father, talk to him.  Please don't let him go.
                      Exit Seward and Mina

HELSING:  Oh, Briggs.

                          Enter Briggs

HELSING:  Miss Mina is to wear this wreath of wolfbane when she
goes to bed.  Watch her closely and see that she does not remove
it in her sleep.

BRIGGS:  I understand, professor.

HELSING:  And under no circumstances must these windows be
opened tonight.

BRIGGS:  Very well, sir.

                            SUNDOWN
                   The Crypt at Carfax Abbey
                Dracula awakens from his coffin
                      Offstage:  Wolf call

                       LATER THAT EVENING
                       The Seward Parlour
              Enter Van Helsing, Harker and Seward

HELSING:  You will recollect that Dracula casts no reflection in
the mirror.

SEWARD:  Yes?

HELSING:  And that three boxes of earth were delivered to him at
Carfax Abbey.

SEWARD:  Right.

HELSING:  And, knowing that a vampire must rest by day in his
native soil, I am convinced that this Dracula is no legend but
an undead creature whose life has been unnaturally prolonged.

HARKER:  Well, Dr. Seward, what about it?  Is Mina going with me
or not?

HELSING:  If you take her from under our protection, you will
kill her.

SEWARD:  Now, John, please.  Please, be patient.

HELSING:  Mr. Harker, please, come here.

HARKER:  Well?

SEWARD:  John, I know you love her, but don't forget she's my
daughter, and I must do what I think is best.

HELSING:  Mr. Harker, I have devoted my lifetime to the study of
many strange things...little known facts which the world is
perhaps better off for not knowing.

HARKER:  I know.  But professor, all I want is to get Mina away
from all of this.

HELSING:  That will do no good.  Our only chance of saving Miss
Mina's life is to find the hiding place of Dracula's living
corpse and to drive a stake through his heart.

                         Enter Renfield

RENFIELD:  Isn't this a strange conversation for men who aren't
crazy?

SEWARD:  Renfield, you're compelling me to put you in a strait
jacket.

RENFIELD:  You forget, Doctor, that madmen have great strength.

HELSING:  Dracula has great strength, hey, Renfield?

RENFIELD:  Words, words, words!

SEWARD:  (talking on telephone)  Hello, Martin, didn't I warn
you to keep a strict watch?

                      The Sanitarium Ward
                 Martin speaks on the telephone

MARTIN:  What?  Again?  Yes, sir.  At once, sir.  Yes, sir.
Right away, sir.  Here, the doctor's pet loony is loose again.

                       The Seward Parlour
        Renfield talks to Van Helsing, Harker and Seward

RENFIELD:  He came to my window in the moonlight.  He promised
me things.  Not in words, but by doing them.

HELSING:  Doing them?

RENFIELD:  By making them happen.  A red mist spread over the
lawn, coming on like a flame of fire.  And then he parted it,
and I could see that there were thousands of rats with their
eyes blazing red like his only smaller.

                          Enter Martin

RENFIELD:  And then he held up his hand and they all stopped.
And I thought he seemed to be saying, "Rats...rats...rats!
Thousands!  Millions of them!  All red blood!  All these will I
give you if you will obey me."

               Enter Dracula at the terrace door

HELSING:  What did he want you to do?

RENFIELD:  That which has already been done.

MARTIN:  Strike me down dead, Doctor.  He's got me going.  Now
he's twisted and broken them iron bars as if they was cheese.

HELSING:  Dracula is in the house.

SEWARD:  In the house?

HELSING:  Doctor, this time he can do no harm.  We are ready for
him.

SEEWARD:  Martin, come with me.  I'll show you where we can put
Mr. Renfield where he won't escape again.

MARTIN:  Well, all right, but I have me doubts.  Come on, old
fly eater.

                Exit Seward, Renfield and Martin

DRACULA:  Van Helsing!  Now that you have learned what you have
learned, it would be well for you to return to your own country.

HELSING:  I prefer to remain and protect those whom you would
destroy.

DRACULA:  You are too late.  My blood now flows through her
veins.  She will live through the centuries to come...as I have
lived.

HELSING:  Should you escape us, Dracula, we know how to save
Miss Mina's soul if not her life.

DRACULA:  If she dies by day.  But I shall see that she dies by
night.

HELSING:  And I will have Carfax Abbey torn down stone by stone,
excavated a mile around.  I will find your earth box and drive
that stake through your heart.

DRACULA:  Come here.  Come...here.

HELSING:  (Takes three steps toward Dracula, then backs up)

DRACULA:  Your will is strong, Van Helsing.

                 Dracula approahces Van Helsing
              Van Helsing reaches into his pocket

DRACULA:  More wolfbane?

HELSING:  More effective than wolfbane, Count.

DRACULA:  Indeed?

                 Van Helsing pulls out crucifix

DRACULA:  (snarls and turns away)

                           THAT NIGHT
               The Hallway outside Mina's Bedroom
       Harker listens in as Briggs prepares Mina for bed

MINA:  Open the window, Briggs, so that you can let in some air.
 The awful smell from that horrible weed.  It's stifling.  I
can't stand it.

BRIGGS:  But the professor gave orders.

MINA:  Oh, never mind the professor now.

BRIGGS:  Now, please, go back to bed at once.  I'm going to call
your father.

                  Exit Briggs into the hallway

HARKER:  What is it, Briggs?

BRIGGS:  I don't know, Mr. Harker.  I felt strangely dizzy.  And
when it cleared away, Miss Mina was up and dressed and out on
the terrace.  And I can't get her to go to bed.

HARKER:  Well, let me see her.  Tell her I'm here.

                   Harker enters Mina's room
                 Mina stands out on the terrace

MINA:  John?  Oh, John, I'm so glad you're here.  What have they
been doing to me, dear?  Locking me in my room!  Oh, and the
horrible smell of that awful weed.  It's been like a nightmare.
What's been the matter?  Why are you looking at me like that?

HARKER:  Mina, you're so...like a changed girl.  You look
wonderful.

MINA:  I feel wonderful.  I've never felt better in my life.

HARKER:  I'm so glad to see you like this.  I've been awfully
worried about you.

                          Enter Briggs

BRIGGS:  Mr. Harker, you've got to bring Miss Mina inside.

HARKER:  That's all right, Briggs, now that I'm here.

MINA:  Run along, Briggs, don't worry.

                          Exit Briggs

MINA:  John, look!  The fog's lifting.  See how plain you can
see the stars.

HARKER:  Yes, millions of them.  I've never seen them so close.
Why, it looks as though you could reach out and touch them.
Would you like me to get your hat?  Why, what's the matter?

MINA:  Oh, nothing.  Nothing at all.  Come.  Let's sit down.

                           MEANWHILE
                       The Seward Parlour
         Exit Van Helsing and Seward towards the stairs

HELSING:  Seward, that which I feared from the beginning has
happened.

SEWARD:  What?

HELSING:  Dracula boasts that he has fused his blood with that
of Miss Mina.  In life, she will now become the foul thing of
the night that he is.

SEWARD:  But, Van Helsing...

HELSING:  No, no, come, Seward, come.  There's not a moment to
be lost.

                         Mina's bedroom
        Mina and Harker sit together out on the terrace

MINA:  Oh, but I love the fog!  I love nights in the fog!

HARKER:  But only yesterday you said you were afraid of the
night.

MINA:  But darling, I could never have said anything so silly.
I couldn't!  I love the night.  That's the only time I feel
really alive.

                           Enter Bat

HARKER:  There's that bat again!

MINA:  Yes?

HARKER:  Look out.  He'll get in your hair.

BAT:  (squeaks)

MINA:  Yes?

HARKER:  My, that was a big bat!

BAT:  (squeaks)

MINA:  I will.

HARKER:  You will what?

MINA:  Why, I didn't say anything.

HARKER:  Yes, you did.  You said, "I will."

MINA:  Oh, no, I didn't.  John, come, sit down.

        Enter Van Helsing and Seward into Mina's bedroom

SEWARD:  There must be some way...some way to save her.

HELSING:  There is only one.

MINA:  (unaware of Van Helsing and Seward's presence)  John,
that funny little old professor.  He has a crucifix.  I want you
to get it away from him and hide it.

HARKER:  But why, dear?

MINA:  Oh, he'll be wanting to protect me again from the night
or Count Dracula or whatever it is.

HARKER:  Well, I don't know.  He may be right, Mina.  Your eyes!
 They look at me so strangely.  Mina!  Mina, you're...

            Mina bends forward to bite Harker's neck

SEWARD:  No, Mina, no!

              Helsing runs forward with crucifix)

MINA:  (screams)

HARKER:  Give me that.  What's the idea?  Are you crazy?  What
are you trying to do...frighten her to death?

HELSING:  No, I was trying to save her.

HARKER:  Save her?  That's a fine way.  It's all right, darling.

MINA:  Oh, John, darling.  You must go away from me.  The cross!
 Put it away.  After what's happened, I can't bear to look at it.

HARKER:  What's happened?

MINA:  I can't tell you, I can't.

HARKER:  But you must.  You must tell me.  I have a right to
know.

MINA:  Oh, John.  You can believe everything he says.  It's all
the truth.  Dracula, he...

HARKER:  Dracula?  What's he done to you, Mina?  Tell me.

MINA:  He came to me.  He opened a vein in his arm, and he made
me drink.

                  Offstage:  Sound of gunshot

SEWARD:  (looking over terrace wall)  What is it?  Who is it,
Martin?

                       Below on the Lawn
                 Martin and Maid look after bat

MARTIN:  It's that big grey bat again.

HELSING:  There's no use of wasting your bullets, Martin.  They
cannot harm that bat.

MARTIN:  No, sir.

                        Exit Van Helsing

MAID:  He's crazy.

MARTIN:  They're all crazy.  They're all crazy except you and
me.  Sometimes I have me doubts about you.

MAID:  Yes.
                          Exit Martin

                        LATER THAT NIGHT
                         Mina's Bedroom
                   Briggs watches Mina sleep
                    Dracula peers in window

BRIGGS:  (removes wolfbane and opens windows)

                         Enter Dracula

                      A FEW MINUTES LATER
                The Front Gate of the Sanitarium
            Van Helsing and Harker prepare to depart
            They see Renfield approach Carfax Abbey

HARKER:  That's Renfield.  What's he doing at the Abbey?

HELSING:  Come, Mr. Harker.

                      Inside Carfax Abbey
                     Enter Mina and Dracula
                         Enter Renfield

RENFIELD:  Master!  Master, I'm here!

                      Outside Carfax Abbey
      Van Helsing and Harker look for a way into the Abbey

HELSING:  Where else would he be going but to Dracula?

                      Inside Carfax Abbey
              Renfield approaches Dracula and Mina

RENFIELD:  What is it, master?  What do you want me to do?

                      Outside Carfax Abbey
     Van Helsing and Harker find an opening into the Abbey

HARKER:  Look, here's an opening.  Mina!  Mina!

                      Inside Carfax Abbey
                  Dracula approaches Renfield

RENFIELD:  I didn't lead them here, Master.  I didn't know, I
swear!  I'm loyal to you, Master.  I'm your slave.  I didn't
betray you.  Oh, no, don't!  Don't kill me!  Let me live,
please!  Punish me, torture me, but let me live.  I can't die
with all those lives on my conscience...all that blood on my
hands!

DRACULA:  Throws Renfield down the stairs

                  Enter Van Helsing and Harker
                     Exit Dracula and Mina

HARKER:  Mina!  Mina!  He'll kill her if we don't get to her!

HELSING:  We must not be too late!  We have him trapped!  Day is
breaking!  We have him trapped!

                    Offstage:  Mina screams

HARKER:  Hurry!  Mina!  Mina, where are you?  Mina!  Mina!
Mina, where are you?  Mina!  Mina!  Mina!  Mina!

HELSING:  (seeing coffins)  Harker!  Harker!  Come!

HARKER:  Where?  Where are you?

HELSING:  Here!  Here, Harker, I have found them!  Get me a
piece of stone...anything to help me drive the stake through
their hearts.

                Van Helsing opens Mina's coffin

HARKER:  Is she?  How is she?

HELSING:  She is not here!

HARKER:  Then...then she may be alive!  Mina!  Mina!  Mina!
Mina!

HELSING:  (Drives stake through Dracula's heart)

DRACULA:  (gasps)

MINA:  (screams)

HARKER:  Mina!  Mina!  Mina!

MINA:  Oh, John!  John, darling!  I heard you calling, but I
couldn't say anything.

HARKER:  We thought he'd killed you, dear.

MINA:  The daylight stopped him.  Oh, if you could have seen the
look on his face!

HELSING:  There's nothing more to fear, Miss Mina.  Dracula is
dead forever.  No, no, no!  You must go.

MINA:  But aren't you coming with us?

HELSING:  Not yet.  Presently.  Come, John.

                      Exit Harker and Mina

              Offstage:  The Sound of Church Bells

                            THE END
