year	2009
imdb score	7.8
meta score	83
genre	Adventure
genre	Animation
genre	Comedy
genre	Crime
genre	Family
keyword	fox
keyword	farmer
keyword	cider
keyword	farm
keyword	tale
keyword	badger
keyword	singer
keyword	sewer
keyword	tape recording
keyword	electric fence
keyword	critically acclaimed
keyword	uncle nephew relationship
keyword	turkey the bird
keyword	prisoner
keyword	box office flop
keyword	map
keyword	foaming at the mouth
keyword	cousin cousin relationship
keyword	talking animal
keyword	school
keyword	musician
keyword	stop motion animation
keyword	chicken coop
keyword	watching tv
keyword	theft
keyword	manhole
keyword	lawyer
keyword	kidnapping
keyword	trophy
keyword	security guard
keyword	rat
keyword	gunshot
keyword	whistle
keyword	trap
keyword	banjo
keyword	vixen
keyword	father son relationship
keyword	coach
keyword	martial arts
keyword	tape recorder
keyword	credit card
keyword	storybook in opening shot
keyword	train set
keyword	stop motion
keyword	acorn
keyword	supermarket
keyword	thief
keyword	reporter
keyword	writer
keyword	x rayed skeleton
keyword	kung fu
keyword	bound and gagged
keyword	binoculars
keyword	based on children's book
keyword	underground
keyword	steam shovel
keyword	title at the end
keyword	battle
keyword	helicopter
keyword	meditation
keyword	pianist
keyword	aunt nephew relationship
keyword	ambush
keyword	artist
keyword	dancing
keyword	airplane
keyword	fireman
keyword	bomb
keyword	mask
keyword	breaking and entering
keyword	trapped
keyword	redemption
keyword	farm life
keyword	rescue
keyword	rural
keyword	athlete
keyword	trailer home
keyword	newspaper article
keyword	knife
keyword	vegetarian
keyword	microphone
keyword	wolf
keyword	rabid dog
keyword	beagle dog
keyword	husband wife relationship
keyword	explosion
keyword	fire
keyword	painting
keyword	anthropomorphic animal
keyword	painter
keyword	student
keyword	pregnancy
keyword	singing
keyword	anthropomorphism
keyword	chemistry class
keyword	tree
keyword	captive
keyword	train
keyword	stealing a chicken
keyword	mother son relationship
keyword	alarm
keyword	whimsical
keyword	headphones
keyword	based on novel
keyword	character name in title
keyword	title spoken by character
cast	George Clooney	Mr. Fox
cast	Meryl Streep	Mrs. Fox
cast	Jason Schwartzman	Ash
cast	Bill Murray	Badger
cast	Wallace Wolodarsky	Kylie
cast	Eric Chase Anderson	Kristofferson
cast	Michael Gambon	Franklin Bean
cast	Willem Dafoe	Rat
cast	Owen Wilson	Coach Skip
cast	Jarvis Cocker	Petey
cast	Wes Anderson	Weasel
cast	Karen Duffy	Linda Otter
cast	Robin Hurlstone	Walter Boggis
cast	Hugo Guinness	Nathan Bunce
cast	Helen McCrory	Mrs. Bean
cast	Roman Coppola	Squirrel Contractor
cast	Juman Malouf	Agnes
cast	Jeremy Dawson	Beaver's Son
cast	Garth Jennings	Bean's Son
cast	Brian Cox	Action 12 Reporter
cast	Tristan Oliver	Explosives Man
cast	James Hamilton	Mole
cast	Steven M. Rales	Beaver
cast	Rob Hersov	Pilot
cast	Jennifer Furches	Dr. Badger
cast	Allison Abbate	Rabbit's Ex-Girlfriend
cast	Molly Cooper	Rabbit Girl
cast	Adrien Brody	Field Mouse
cast	Mario Batali	Rabbit
cast	Martin Ballard	Fire Chief
