year	1977
imdb score	7.6
meta score	N/A
genre	Action
genre	Drama
genre	War
keyword	russian
keyword	sergeant
keyword	commander
keyword	prussian
keyword	german soldier
keyword	lieutenant
keyword	soldier
keyword	german
keyword	iron cross
keyword	captain
keyword	coward
keyword	arrogance
keyword	homosexual
keyword	battle
keyword	combat
keyword	honor
keyword	eastern front
keyword	colonel
keyword	ambition
keyword	combat casualty
keyword	penis
keyword	demarcation
keyword	flashback
keyword	mirror
keyword	trench
keyword	no man's land
keyword	nightmare
keyword	bullet
keyword	bayonet
keyword	killed in action
keyword	platoon
keyword	disciplinary hearing
keyword	hand grenade
keyword	rifle
keyword	cult film
keyword	smoke
keyword	hand to hand combat
keyword	dead soldier
keyword	infantry
keyword	virginity
keyword	happy birthday
keyword	anti war
keyword	rocket launcher
keyword	brutality
keyword	military uniform
keyword	private
keyword	salute
keyword	touching face
keyword	bayonet up someone's ass
keyword	dressing
keyword	birthday
keyword	sex
keyword	machine gun
keyword	reference to kant
keyword	rat
keyword	army outpost
keyword	knife
keyword	children
keyword	shelling
keyword	exploding tank
keyword	general
keyword	cynicism
keyword	nazi
keyword	sense of smell
keyword	trench warfare
keyword	crimea
keyword	mass murder
keyword	fatal injury
keyword	slaughter
keyword	gunfire
keyword	falling into a river
keyword	bombardment
keyword	kuban russia
keyword	chaos
keyword	toast
keyword	pond
keyword	explosion
keyword	battlefield
keyword	killing one's own troops
keyword	blood splatter
keyword	strangulation
keyword	mud
keyword	telephone call
keyword	despair
keyword	nurse
keyword	violence
keyword	farm
keyword	france
keyword	blood splatter
keyword	injury
keyword	bloody body of a child
keyword	polishing boots
keyword	ruling class
keyword	mowing down
keyword	mercilessness
keyword	urination
keyword	oral sex
keyword	tunnel
keyword	destruction
keyword	russia
keyword	commandant
keyword	railroad track
keyword	corruption
keyword	class differences
keyword	bullet ballet
keyword	sexual assault
keyword	battalion
keyword	bridge
keyword	dead body
keyword	wehrmacht
keyword	submachine gun
keyword	bathing
keyword	drunk soldier
keyword	shot in the back
keyword	dead children
keyword	hatred
keyword	family relationships
keyword	hospital
keyword	orders to kill
keyword	child with gun
keyword	world war two
keyword	train
keyword	military hospital
keyword	stabbing
keyword	barbed wire
keyword	gun duel
keyword	stronghold
keyword	wine
keyword	drink
keyword	gun
keyword	tank
keyword	war atrocity
keyword	medal
keyword	killer
keyword	goldfish
keyword	cripple
keyword	fire
keyword	trapped
keyword	gestapo
keyword	gay
keyword	wheelchair
keyword	gunfight
keyword	fighter bomber attack
keyword	counter attack
keyword	military headquarters
keyword	pain
keyword	sadism
keyword	friendly fire
keyword	military
keyword	nudity
keyword	stuck in mud
keyword	shooting
keyword	barricade
keyword	woods
keyword	truck
keyword	mutilated child
keyword	bunker
keyword	apple
keyword	drunkenness
keyword	ammunition
keyword	year 1943
keyword	nazi soldier
keyword	assault party
keyword	forest
keyword	automatic weapon
keyword	bombing
keyword	wound
keyword	reconnaissance
keyword	airplane
keyword	reference to adolf hitler
keyword	diarrhea
keyword	photograph
keyword	arm injury
keyword	sexual desire
keyword	murder
keyword	sexual sadism
keyword	gun battle
keyword	fighter bomber
keyword	motorcycle with a sidecar
keyword	siberia
keyword	amputated hand
keyword	explosive
keyword	drinking
keyword	breaking dishes
keyword	volunteer
keyword	mascot
keyword	hiding
keyword	hallucination
keyword	military promotion
keyword	blood
keyword	non commissioned officer
keyword	killing
keyword	orchestra
keyword	singing
keyword	german army
keyword	1940s
keyword	syphilis
keyword	cannon fodder
keyword	face slap
keyword	boots
keyword	shot in the stomach
keyword	teenage boy
keyword	fellatio
keyword	letter
keyword	irony
keyword	radio
keyword	unshaved
keyword	male male kiss
keyword	shell shock
keyword	gun
keyword	freeze frame
keyword	lilli marlene
keyword	newsreel footage
keyword	dust
keyword	mustard gas
keyword	group murder
keyword	death of boy
keyword	crawling
keyword	swastika
keyword	mortar
keyword	steel helmet
keyword	kiss
keyword	frontline
keyword	lie
keyword	liar
keyword	bathtub
keyword	wealth
keyword	prisoner
keyword	beating
keyword	shot in the chest
keyword	investigation
keyword	bazooka
keyword	slow motion scene
keyword	air raid shelter
keyword	russian soldier
keyword	hand crank telephone
keyword	survivor
keyword	first lieutenant
keyword	birthday cake
keyword	massacre
keyword	unconsciousness
keyword	bitterness
keyword	boy
keyword	gay subtext
keyword	dancer
keyword	military officer
keyword	harmonica
keyword	checkpoint
keyword	evacuation
keyword	singer
keyword	undressing
keyword	bunk bed
keyword	food
keyword	female nudity
keyword	murder of boy
keyword	corpse
keyword	female soldier
keyword	water
keyword	broken dish
keyword	mass destruction
keyword	cruelty
keyword	motorcycle
keyword	adjutant
keyword	bullet time
keyword	nipples
keyword	retreat
keyword	army nurse
keyword	horse
keyword	battle fatigue
keyword	shell splinter
keyword	gunshot wound
keyword	dying
keyword	corporal
keyword	foxhole
keyword	death
keyword	bare breasts
keyword	rabbit
keyword	shaving
keyword	pistol
keyword	intimidation
keyword	anti tank mine
keyword	cattle car
keyword	dancing
keyword	vodka
keyword	heil hitler
keyword	gore
keyword	female prisoner
keyword	capture
keyword	song
keyword	candle
keyword	penis bitten off
keyword	concussion
keyword	spell
keyword	father figure
keyword	bomb
keyword	aristocrat
keyword	castration
keyword	stalingrad
keyword	shot in the neck
keyword	flatulence
keyword	cigarette smoking
keyword	loneliness
keyword	war violence
keyword	sadist
keyword	independent film
keyword	based on novel
cast	James Coburn	Unteroffizier Feldwebel
cast	Maximilian Schell	Hauptmann
cast	James Mason	Oberst
cast	David Warner	Hauptmann
cast	Klaus Löwitsch	Unteroffizier
cast	Vadim Glowna	Gefreiter
cast	Roger Fritz	Leutnant
cast	Dieter Schidor	Anselm
cast	Burkhard Driest	Schütze Maag
cast	Fred Stillkrauth	Unteroffizier
cast	Michael Nowka	Dietz
cast	Véronique Vendell	Marga
cast	Arthur Brauss	Pg. Zoll
cast	Senta Berger	Sister Eva
cast	Thomas Braut	Unteroffizier Feldwebel
cast	Heinz Engelmann	Oberst
cast	Igor Galo	Leutnant
cast	Katherine Haber	Nurse Sadie Finkelstein
cast	Wolfgang Hess	Schütze Maag
cast	Adolf Hitler	Himself
cast	Sweeney MacArthur	Boy Soldier
cast	Ivica Pajer	
cast	Thomas Piper	Hauptmann
cast	Hermina Pipinic	Ruskinja
cast	Nedim Prohic	
cast	Robert Rietty	German Officer
cast	Dragomir Stanojevic	
cast	Slavko Stimac	Michail
cast	Vladan Zivkovic	
