year	1986
imdb score	4.7
meta score	N/A
genre	Action
genre	Drama
genre	Sci-Fi
keyword	desert
keyword	children
keyword	teenager
keyword	bare chested male bondage
keyword	rollerball
keyword	utopia quest
keyword	orphan
keyword	post apocalypse
keyword	roller skating
keyword	
cast	Richard Jordan	Grock
cast	Jami Gertz	Terra
cast	Jason Patric	Jason
cast	Lukas Haas	Daniel
cast	James Le Gros	Metron
cast	Claude Brooks	Rabbit
cast	Peter DeLuise	Tug
cast	Peter Kowanko	Gavial
cast	Adrian Pasdar	Darstar
cast	Sarah Douglas	Shandray
cast	Charles Durning	The Warden
cast	Frank Converse	Greentree
cast	Terrence Mann	Ivor
cast	Alexei Sayle	Malice
cast	Bruce Payne	Dogger
cast	Willoughby Gray	Canis
cast	Kelly Bishop	Tutor Nover
cast	Sam Hamann	Technician
cast	Vin Burnham	Vendor
cast	Carlin Andersen	Hooker
