year	1997
imdb score	7.4
meta score	61
genre	Mystery
genre	Sci-Fi
genre	Thriller
keyword	trap
keyword	maze
keyword	room
keyword	stranger
keyword	escape
keyword	danger
keyword	wrongful imprisonment
keyword	claustrophobia
keyword	unsolved mystery
keyword	first of series
keyword	canadian science fiction
keyword	black cop
keyword	stabbed in the back
keyword	red light
keyword	bleeding to death
keyword	cut into pieces
keyword	mathematics
keyword	murder
keyword	slamming a door
keyword	severed leg
keyword	urination
keyword	tragedy
keyword	severed arm
keyword	reference to george orwell's 1984
keyword	lifting someone into the air
keyword	survival
keyword	lone survivor
keyword	boots
keyword	allegory
keyword	knifing
keyword	reference to big brother
keyword	locked in a room
keyword	blood on shirt
keyword	trapped in a room
keyword	labyrinth
keyword	paranoia
keyword	severed head
keyword	factors
keyword	survival horror
keyword	crushed to death
keyword	stabbed in the chest
keyword	existentialism
keyword	leg ripped off
keyword	cult film
keyword	police officer killed
keyword	acid
keyword	kidnapping
keyword	irony
keyword	killed by a policeman
keyword	gore
keyword	low budget film
keyword	escape artist
keyword	one word title
keyword	alternative reality
keyword	nihilism
keyword	puzzle
keyword	single set production
keyword	surrealism
keyword	death
keyword	prime numbers
keyword	falling from height
keyword	huis clos
keyword	imprisonment
keyword	sole survivor
keyword	booby trap
keyword	lifting female in air
keyword	autistic savant
keyword	beating
keyword	melting face
keyword	police
keyword	autism
keyword	independent film
keyword	title spoken by character
keyword	surprise ending
cast	Maurice Dean Wint	Quentin
cast	David Hewlett	Worth
cast	Nicole de Boer	Leaven
cast	Nicky Guadagni	Holloway
cast	Andrew Miller	Kazan
cast	Julian Richings	Alderson
cast	Wayne Robson	Rennes
