
THE THIRD MAN

<!--
if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
// -->























                    "THE THIRD MAN"

                           by

                     Graham Greene




HIGH ANGLE - FULL SHOT - CITY OF VIENNA

The title VIENNA SUPERIMPOSED FADES OUT - commentary commences.

                         COMMENTATOR
            I never knew the old Vienna before
            the war, with its -

MED. SHOT - STATUE OF A VIOLINIST

There is snow on it.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Strauss music, its glamour and easy
            charm...

MED. SHOT - ROW OF STONE STATUES

ornamenting the top of a building.  In the b.g. the top of a
stone archway.  They are snow-sprinkled.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Constantinople suited...

MED. SHOT - SNOW-COVERED STATUE

Trees in b.g.

                         COMMENTATOR
            me better.  I really got to know it
            in the...

CLOSE SHOT - TWO MEN

talking in the street.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - classic period of the black...

CLOSEUP - SUITCASE

opens toward camera, revealing contents consisting of tins
of food, shoes, etc.  The hands of a man come in from f.g.
to take something out.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - market.  We'd run anything...

CLOSEUP - HANDS OF TWO PEOPLE

standing side by side in the street.  The person CL running
hands through a pair of silk stockings.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - if people wanted it enough.

CLOSEUP - HANDS OF TWO PEOPLE

A woman's hands CL wearing a wedding ring - a man's hands CR
holding in RH two small cartons - hands them over to her in
exchange for some notes which she hands him.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - and had the money to pay.

CLOSE SHOT - FIVE WRIST WATCHES

on a man's wrist from which the coat sleeve is turned back.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Of course a situation like that -

LONG SHOT - CAPSIZED SHIP

in shallow water with a drowned body floating on the water
CR of it.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - doesn't tempt amateurs...You
            know, they can't stay the course
            like a professional.

MED. LONG SHOT - THROUGH STONE ARCHWAY

with Church seen in b.g. through it.  A large board in R.
f.g., CS reading:

                  "ENTERING AMERICAN ZONE"

                         COMMENTATOR
            Now the city is divided -

CLOSE SHOT - BOARD

in CR f.g. - gateway CL of it reading:

                       "BRITISH ZONE"

                         COMMENTATOR
            - into four zones, you know -

CLOSE SHOT - A LARGE BOARD TOP

CR of an ornamental double gateway - wrought iron gates.
The inscription is in Russian - corresponding to the two
previous zone boards.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - each occupied by a power.

CLOSE SHOT - A LARGE BOARD

bearing the words:

                    "DEBUT ZONE FRANCAIS"

                         COMMENTATOR
            American, British, Russian and the
            French.

CLOSE SHOT - FOUR SHIELDS

resting on a ledge at the top of a building.  From CL
American, British, French and Russian Provost Marshals shields.

                         COMMENTATOR
            But the center of the city, that's -

MED. CLOSE SHOT

An American officer CL and Russian officer CR.  They are
facing each other in profile.  They exchange salutes.
CAMERA PANS RL with the American as they turn away from each
other - losing the Russian.  The former is on the move RL as
we:

                         COMMENTATOR
            - international, policed by an
            international patrol, one member of
            each of the four powers...

LONG SHOT

of a parked row of American-type patrol wagons.  M.P.'s of
the four occupying powers lined up in front of them, waiting
for orders.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Wonderful!  What a hope they had.
            All strangers to the place...

MED. LONG SHOT - PATROL WAGON

nearest camera drives away from the parked line toward
camera, LR M.P.'s dispersed round the remaining wagons.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - and none of them could speak the
            same language...

CLOSE SHOT - THE FOUR REPRESENTATIVE M.P.'S

of the International patrol seated in patrol wagon (open).
Driving LR through streets of Vienna.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Except of course a smattering of
            German.  Good fellows on the whole.
            Did their best, you know.

LONG SHOT - SQUARE IN VIENNA

Bomb damaged buildings in R of picture.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Vienna doesn't really look...

LONG SHOT - CITY OF VIENNA

Tower of a church scaffolded in repair in b.g.  Woman
crosses f.g. RL.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - any worse than...

MED. SHOT - MONUMENT

with buildings of the city in b.g. and bomb damaged roof in
R of picture.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - a lot of other European cities.

LONG SHOT - MAN

walking over the rubble of a bombed building.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Bombed about a bit...

CLOSE SHOT

Front rank of uniformed American soldiers on parade rifles
and bayonets at "present arms" position.  They are at
attention in R profile.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Oh, I was going to tell you...

LONG SHOT - A GROUP OF AMERICAN AND RUSSIAN OFFICERS

standing at attention at the salute on the steps of a large
building.  At the top of the steps, in b.g. behind them,
other Russian soldiers seen.

                         COMMENTATOR
            I was going to tell you about Holly
            Martins.

CLOSE SHOT

Front rank of a parade of Russian soldiers, rifles at the
"present arms" in front of them.  They are in L profile.
CAMERA PANS RL slightly to reveal the roadway in front of them.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - an American came all the way here
            to visit a friend of his - the name...

MED. SHOT - COMPANY OF RUSSIAN SOLDIERS

with rifles and fixed bayonets marching LR.

                         COMMENTATOR
            - was Lime.  Harry Lime.  Now -

CLOSE SHOT - STEAM ENGINE

at a standstill, puffing.  On wall behind it in large
letters - WIEN-WEST-BHF

                         COMMENTATOR
            Martins was broke and Lime had
            offered him some sort - I don't
            know - some sort of a job.

CLOSE SHOT - STEAM ENGINE

moving downstage RL as if to exit past CL.  Music crescendo.

                         COMMENTATOR
            Anyway, there he was, poor chap.
            Happy as a lark, and without a cent.

CLOSE SHOT - TRAIN CARRIAGE WINDOW

pulling into station RL.  Holly Martins' head out of the
window, looking off CL.  Train draws to a standstill.
Martins opens the door of the compartment and pulling down
his grip from the rack, gets out, and exits CL.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

making his way down the platform, toward the ticket barrier
in f.g.  Train stationary CL far side of barrier.  M.P.'s
(British and Russian) CL near side of barrier.  American M.P.
CR.

                         U.S.M.P.
            Passport, please.

                         MARTINS
            Oh.

Martins hands his passport to M.P.  CAMERA TRACKS IN to
CLOSE TWO SHOT.

                         U.S.M.P.
            What's the purpose of your visit here?

CAMERA STOPS TRACKING.

                         MARTINS
            A friend of mine offered me a job
            here.

                         U.S.M.P.
            Where are you staying?

                         MARTINS
            With him.  Fifteen Stiffgasse.

                         U.S.M.P.
            His name?

He looks off CL.

                         MARTINS
            Lime.  Harry Lime.

                         U.S.M.P.
            Okay.

                         MARTINS
            I thought he'd be here to meet me.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

------------------------------------------------------------------

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

on landing above - candle bracket CR of him, looking down
off L for Martins.

                         PORTER
            Das ist niemand mein hier.  Sie
            lauten un sonst.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

on the floor below, from Porter's viewpoint.  He is looking
up off past CR from Porter.

                         MARTINS
            Speak English?

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            English?

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

looking down off L for Martins.  He steps forward to
bannister rail from candles.

                         PORTER
            Little, little.  Sie kommen zehn
            minuten zu spat.  Ten minutes too
            late.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off R for the Porter.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Already gone.

                         MARTINS
            Who?

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

leaning on bannister rail and looking down off L for Martins.

                         PORTER
            His friends and - er - the coffin.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking up off R for Porter.

                         MARTINS
            Coffin?

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Mr. Lime's.  Accident...

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

looking down off L for Martins.

                         PORTER
            Knocked over by a car, here in
            front of the house.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

from Porter's eye line, on the floor below, looking up off R
for him.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Have seen it myself, killed at
            once, immediately.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

looking down L for Martins off.

                         PORTER
            Already in hell or in heaven.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking up off R for Porter.  CAMERA TRACKS in to BIG CLOSEUP.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            I'm sorry for the grave diggers.
            Hard work in this frost.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - CEMETERY

Music starts.  Martins walking down roadway CR of it to
camera.  Peasant woman in L of picture, putting some flowers
on a grave.  He exits CL.

MED. SHOT - GROUP OF MOURNERS

in black, round a newly dug grave.  Priest reading over the
service in L profile in f.g.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

Martins discovered in picture, moves downstage to stand CL
of him.

                         MARTINS
            Can you tell me whose...

                         CALLOWAY
            Fellow called Lime.

Martins exits CL f.g.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

moving upstage through the cemetery, toward the group round
the grave.

MED. SHOT - THE MOURNERS

round the grave.  Priest reading from his book.  Anna
discovered CR.

                         PRIEST
            Gelitten unter Pontius Pilatus...

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND DR. WINKEL

looking off CR.

                         PRIEST
            - gekreuzuget, gestorben und
            begraben.  Abestiengen zu...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

near the grave.  Martins moving downstage, taking off hat,
stands just behind her CR.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            - der hoelle am dritten tage.
            Wieder auferstanden von den toten.
            Aufgerfahren in den Himmel siszet
            zur rechten...

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND DR. WINKEL

looking off CR.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            - hand gottes des allmaechtigen vater.

                         KURTZ
            Wer ist das?

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            Von dannen er kommen wird zu
            richten die lebendigen toten...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off past CR, reacting to the service.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            Ich glaube an den heiligen geist
            die heilige katholische...

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND DR. WINKEL

looking off, CR, reacting to the service.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            - kirche.  Gemeinschaft der heiligen.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off, CR, reacting to service.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            ...Ablass der sueden.  Auferstehung
            des fleisches.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

in L profile, her eyes lower from Martins' eye line.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            Ein ewiges leben.  Herr...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL at Anna.

                         PRIEST (O.S.)
            ...gib ihner die ewige ruhe.

MED. SHOT - PRIEST

with the graveyard attendant in L profile beside him.

                         MEN
            Und das ewige licht leuchte ihnen.

                         PRIEST
            Im namen des vater des sohnes und
            des heiligen geistes.  Amen.

Priest sprinkles some earth on the grave and moves as if to
exit DR.  Sound of music.

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND DR. WINKEL

looking off CR.

MED. SHOT - PRIEST

moving upstage, back to camera, to Anna and Martins CR of
her. He touches her, hands sympathetically, then moves on
upstage between the two of them.

CLOSE SHOT - GRAVE DIGGER

looking off CL.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

standing side by side. Anna turns away and moves upstage,
back to camera. Martins moves forward.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GRAVE DIGGER

Martins enters from CR. The former gives him a spoonful of
earth and Martins sprinkles it on the grave CL out of
picture. He exits CR. Kurtz standing behind him, takes spoon
from grave digger. Winkel standing behind CL of him looking
after Martins CR.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

puts on his hat, and makes his way upstage, back to camera,
through the graves LR.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.  He exits CL.

CLOSE SHOT - DR. WINKEL

taking spoon from grave digger. Kurtz CR of him, holding
wreath and looking off past CR after Martins. CAMERA PANS R
as Dr. Winkel hands back spoon and moves LR to Kurtz to take
wreath. He stoops down to lay the wreath on the grave off L
below frame - and Kurtz steps forward as:

LONG SHOT - CEMETERY

Martins making his way downstage through cemetery, followed
by Calloway. They exit CR.

LONG SHOT - THE ROADWAY

outside the cemetery, which is in L picture. Martins
followed by Calloway enters from CL; he is moving upstage LR.

                         CALLOWAY
            Like a lift?

He turns round as Calloway calls to him.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looks off past CL for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...to town?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CR for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            I've got a car here.

LONG SHOT - THE ROAD

outside the cemetery. Calloway moves downstage LR to car
parked in R f.g. Martins follows him.

                         MARTINS
            Thanks.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

in R profile in jeep, magazine in hand. He is looking off R
reacting to Calloway. He puts down the magazine and makes a
move as if to start the car.

LONG SHOT - DOOR OF CALLOWAY'S CAR

closes and it drives off upstage.

MED. SHOT - PAINE

driving his jeep, moves out of picture LR.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND CALLOWAY

seated in the back of the car. Martins' CL - both full face.

                         CALLOWAY
            My name is Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            You a friend of Lime's?

                         MARTINS
            Yes.

                         CALLOWAY
            Been here long?

                         MARTINS
            No.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

walking along the road at the side of the cemetery in R
profile, from Calloway's eye line in the car. CAMERA TRAVELS
BACK at speed of car, Anna receding into LONG SHOT, still
walking. In b.g., CL Paine's jeep is seen slowly following
the car.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND CALLOWAY

seated in the back of the car traveling LR.

                         CALLOWAY
            You've had a bit of a shock,
            haven't you? You could do with a
            drink.

                         MARTINS
            Could you buy me one. I haven't got
            any Austrian kroners. Thanks.

                         CALLOWAY
            Schmolka!

Music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

CL, and Calloway seated at a table in the Kartnerstrasse bar.
A bottle is on the table, and each has a glass in front of him.

                         MARTINS
            I guess nobody knew Harry like he
            did - I did.

He reaches for the bottle and pours Martins another

                         CALLOWAY
            How long ago?

CAMERA TRACKS IN to CLOSE TWO SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            Back in school. Never so lonesome
            in my life till he showed up.

                         CALLOWAY
            When did you see him last?

                         MARTINS
            September '39.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Martins in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            When the business started?

Martins drinks from his glass.

                         MARTINS
            Mmmm.

Putting a cigarette to his mouth.

                         CALLOWAY
            See much of him before that?

                         MARTINS
            Once in a while.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Calloway in R f.g.  Martins has glass in hand.

                         MARTINS
            Best friend I ever had.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Martins in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            That sounds like a cheap novelette.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Calloway in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Well, I write cheap novelettes.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Martins in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'm afraid I've never heard of you.
            What's your name again?

                         MARTINS
            Holly Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            No, sorry.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Calloway in L f.g., who is drinking.

                         MARTINS
            Did you ever hear of "The Lone
            Rider of Santa Fe?"

                         CALLOWAY
            I can't say that I have.

                         MARTINS
            "Death at the Double X Ranch" - Ra-
            a-nch.

                         CALLOWAY
            No.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Martins in L f.g. People seen through the window,
passing in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            Must have known I was broke. Even
            sent me an airplane ticket. It's a
            shame.

                         CALLOWAY
            What?

                         MARTINS
            Him dying like that.

                         CALLOWAY
            Best thing that ever happened...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            ...to him.

                         MARTINS
            What are you trying to say?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            He was...

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off past CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...about the worst racketeer who
            ever made a dirty living in this city.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Policeman, eh?

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            Come on, have another drink.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            No...I never did like...

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...policemen. I have to call them
            sheriffs.

                         CALLOWAY
            Ever seen one?

                         MARTINS
            Pin it on a...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Dead man.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

seated at table in the bar, looking at a magazine. He looks
up from it off CR, reacting to the conversation between
Martins and Calloway.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Some petty racket with gasoline or
            something.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Just like...

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...a cop. You're a real cop I suppose.

                         CALLOWAY
            It wasn't petrol.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway. He gets to his feet, CAMERA
PANS UP with him.

                         MARTINS
            So, it wasn't petrol. So it was...

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

seated at the table looking off CR for Martins. He gets to
his feet as we:

                         MARTINS
            ...tires, or saccharin...

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off past CL for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Why don't you catch a few murderers
            for a change?

                         CALLOWAY
            Well, you could say that murder was
            part...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

slightly under the influence of drink, standing behind the
table.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...of his racket.

He leans forward to CR to strike Calloway. As he does so, a
hand comes in from L of picture and swings him back RL,
CAMERA PANNING with him, revealing Paine CL of him - and he
swings Martins round. The latter grabs the post at the
corner of the bench and swings round with it and sits down
on far side, losing his balance.

                         CALLOWAY
            It's all right.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

CAMERA HOLDING him as he gets to his feet, looking off CL
for Paine.

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine.

CAMERA PANS RL with him, revealing Paine and Martins seated
DR of him on far side of bench in L profile. He crosses to
them.

                         CALLOWAY
            He's only a scribbler with too much
            drink in him. Take Mr. Holly home.

He exits in CS CAMERA L.  The other two look after him.

                         PAINE
            Holly Martins, sir?

CLOSE TWO SHOT - PAINE

standing CL looking down at Martins seated in R f.g.

                         PAINE
            The writer? The author of "Death at
            the Double X Ranch?"

MED. CLOSE SHOT - WAITER AND CALLOWAY

who is three-quarters back to camera, taking money out of
his pocket to pay the bill. He looks back, reacting to Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Listen, Callaghan.

                         CALLOWAY
            Calloway - I'm English, not Irish.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

standing CL of Martins, seated in L profile R f.g. They are
looking off CL after Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            You're not going to close your
            files at a dead man's...

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

cigarette in hand, looking off past CR for Martins. Takes
his change from off L.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...expense.

                         CALLOWAY
            Going to find me the real criminal?
            It sounds like one of your stories.

Takes change.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            When I've finished with you...

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

standing CL looking down at Martins seated in L profile. R
f.g., looking off CL for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            ...you'll leave Vienna, you'll look
            so silly.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

standing CR of the waiter at the far side of the table, his
change in his hands. He leaves the waiter, crossing back to
Martins, who is revealed with Paine in R of picture. CAMERA
PANS LR losing the waiter.

                         CALLOWAY
                   (he stuffs some notes
                   into Martins' outside
                   overcoat pocket)
            Here's some army money. Should see
            you through tonight at Sacher's
            Hotel, if you don't drink too much
            at the bar. We'll keep a seat for
            you on tomorrow's plane.

He exits CR in CS.

MED. SHOT - PAINE

and Calloway re-enters from CR to him and Martins. Calloway
crosses screen RL his hat now on, and as he passes, Martins
gets to his feet and grabs him, ready to strike him, but
Paine, standing behind them, strikes him on the jaw and he
jerks back LR, as we -

                                            CUT TO:

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

staggers back between the table CL and the bench. Paine
enters from CL f.g. and helps him to his feet, and sits him
down on the bench CR - CAMERA PANNING UP with them.

                         PAINE
            Please be careful, sir. Up we come.
            Written anything lately?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Take him to Sacher's.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CR for Martins. He turns and walks away upstage
toward the door of the cafe in b.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            Don't hit him again if he behaves.
                   (looking back over
                   his shoulder for Martins)
            You go carefully there.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated in L profile L f.g. Paine full face CR of him.

                         CALLOWAY
            It's a military hotel.

                         PAINE
            I'm so glad to have met you, sir.
            I've read quite a few of your books.

Paine leans toward camera and brings Martins' grip up into
picture from off R.  Martins gets up, helped by Paine.
CAMERA PANS UP RL with them as they move to central aisle
and toward the door, backs to camera, revealing waiter
standing in b.g.

                         WAITER
            Auf wiedersehn meine herren.
                         PAINE
            I like a good western.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

entering the lobby of Sacher's hotel, followed by Paine.
CAMERA TRACKS back with them as they move down the corridor.
Paine catches him up.

                         PAINE
            That's what I like about them, sir.
            You can pick them up and put them
            down any time.

Paine calls to Hartman as he crosses picture RL and the
reception desk and clerk are revealed in L of picture. He
approaches it, followed by Martins.

                         PAINE
            Oh, Mr. Hartman...

                         PORTER
            Yes, sir?

                         PAINE
            Major Calloway says this gentleman's
            got to have a room for tonight.
            He'll be off tomorrow.

                         PORTER
            Passport, please.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

leading a lady through the swing doors from the lounge into
the lobby.

                         CRABBIN
            I can't very well introduce you to
            everybody.

They move to exit CR.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE - CL - AND MARTINS

at the hotel reception desk.

                         PORTER
            Would you mind filling this in?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN AND GIRL

with him. Paine enters from CR to them. CAMERA PANS L,
slightly, as girl friend crosses picture, RL, and stands on
L edge of frame, back to camera.

                         PAINE
            Mr. Crabbin.

                         CRABBIN
            What is it, Sergeant?

                         PAINE
            Mr. Holly Martins, sir.

                         CRABBIN
            Who?

                         PAINE
            The author. Thought you might be
            interested.

                         CRABBIN
            Never heard of him.

                         PAINE
            Oh, he's very goad, sir. I've read
            quite a few of his books.

                         CRABBIN
            Have you, Sergeant? Author -
            Martins. Thank you, Sergeant.

Raising his R index finger, cautioningly to the girl with
him - CL - he exits past CR.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS - PAINE CR

Crabbin moves downstage RL to him as he is writing in the
hotel register. He stands CR of Martins.

                         CRABBIN
            Oh, Mr. Martins, my name is Crabbin.
            I represent the C.R.S. of G.H.Q.

He continues registering.

                         MARTINS
            You do!

                         CRABBIN
            Yes, Cultural re-education Section
            Propaganda. Very important in a
            place like this. We do a little
            show each week. Last week we did
            "Hamlet" and the week before we had
            something...

                         PAINE
            Striptease, sir.

                         CRABBIN
            Yes, Hindu dances, thank you,
            Sergeant. This is the first
            opportunity we've had of making an
            American author welcome.

                         MARTINS
            Welcome?

                         CRABBIN
            I'll tell you what, Mr. Martins. On
            Wednesday night at our institute,
            we are having a little lecture on
            the contemporary novel...I thought
            perhaps you'd like to speak.

Martins puts his handkerchief to his sore jaw - looks at
Crabbin.

                         MARTINS
            They wouldn't know me.

                         CRABBIN
            Nonsense. Your novels are very
            popular here. Aren't they, Sergeant?

                         PAINE
            Very popular, sir.

                         CRABBIN
            Very popular. Are you staying long?

                         MARTINS
            How long can one stay here on this
            stage money?

                         CRABBIN
            Listen, Mr. Martins, if you'd agree
            to be our guest, we'd be delighted
            to have you.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Crabbin.

                         MARTINS
            Would you?

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE AND CRABBIN CR

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CRABBIN
            For as long as you care to stay.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Crabbin.

                         PAINE
            But he's due to...

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE - CRABBIN CR

They are looking off CL for Martins.

                         PAINE
            ...leaving tomorrow, sir.

                         CRABBIN
            Excuse me, have you got tooth...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR - a man entering through b.g. CL.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            ...ache.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Number eight, Mr. Martins.

                         MARTINS
            Come upstairs a moment.

                         CRABBIN
            I know a very good dentist.

                         MARTINS
            I don't need a dentist. Somebody
            hit me, that's all.

LONG SHOT - RECEPTION DESK

The Porter ushers Martins downstage with Crabbin, Paine
following.

                         PORTER
            Bitte.

Martins and Paine walk forward to CS. CAMERA TRACKS, back
with them, PANNING LR, to reveal staircase, and losing Paine
out of picture CL.

                         CRABBIN
            Goodness, we must report that to
            the police. Did they try to rob you?

Martins takes off his hat.

                         MARTINS
            It was just a soldier. I was trying
            to punch his major in the eye.

                         CRABBIN
            No, a major, were you really?

                         MARTINS
            Heard of Harry Lime?

                         CRABBIN
            I've heard of him, of course, but I
            didn't exactly know him.

They reach the stairs and start up them.

                         MARTINS
            I was going to stay with him, but
            he died Thursday.

                         CRABBIN
            Goodness, that's awkward.

                         MARTINS
            Is that what you say to people
            after death? "Goodness that's
            awkward..."

                         RECEPTION PORTER (O.S.)
            Mr. Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - RECEPTION PORTER

holding up telephone, off receiver.

                         PORTER
            Excuse me. Telephone.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

on the staircase - Crabbin CR of him - both turn back to
look off L for reception desk.

                         MARTINS
            Who is it?

CLOSE SHOT - RECEPTION PORTER

behind desk.  Martins enters from CR f.g. to him.

                         PORTER
            Baron Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Must be some mistake.

CLOSE SHOT - BACK OF MARTINS' HEAD

as he speaks into the phone.

                         MARTINS
            Yes.

                         BARON (O.S.)
            I was a friend of Harry Lime.

He turns round into full face position, talking into the phone.

                         MARTINS
            I would very much like to meet you,
            Baron. Come around.

                         BARON (O.S.)
            Austrians aren't allowed in your
            hotel. Couldn't we meet at the
            Mozart cafe?

                         MARTINS
            Where?

                         BARON (O.S.)
            Just around the corner.

                         MARTINS
            How will I know you?

                         BARON (O.S.)
            I'll carry a copy of one of your
            books. Harry gave it to me.

He puts down the receiver.  He looks off CR for Crabbin.

                         MARTINS
            I'll be there in a moment. Wait a
            minute, if I do...

MED. SHOT - CRABBIN

in R f.g. Martins enters from CL and stands in R profile,
looking at him.

                         MARTINS
            ...this lecture business, you'll
            put me up here a while?

                         CRABBIN
            Certainly.

CAMERA PANS RL and TRACKS FORWARD very slightly, revealing
Paine and the swing doors in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            It's a deal. Did you ever read a
            book of mine called "The Lone Rider
            of Sante Fe?"

Martins starts walking to them, as does Crabbin CR and Paine.

                         PAINE
            No, not that one, sir.

                         MARTINS
            It's a story of a man who hunted
            down a sheriff who was victimizing
            his best friend.

Martins exits through the swing doors, and turns round to
re-enter through the other one.

                         CRABBIN
            Seems exciting.

                         MARTINS
            It is, and I'm gunning just the
            same way for your Major Callaghan.

                         PAINE
            Sounds anti-British, sir.

Martin goes out through the door.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT. MOZART CAFE - LONG SHOT

Cafe tables are outside on the pavement. Baron Kurtz is
discovered moving downstage to tables in f.g. book in his
hand. Music starts. Traffic noise is heard.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

coming through a swing door.

LONG SHOT - BARON

holding the book prominently in his hand to show cover,
moving downstage between the tables looking to right and left.

CLOSEUP - BOOK

in the Baron's hand. The cover depicting a cowboy holding a
revolver and titled: "OKLAHOMA KID."

                         MARTINS
            Baron Kurtz?

MED. SHOT - KURTZ

Martins enters from CL. They shake hands. CAMERA PANS RL as
they move to a table. Waiter with tray in his hands is
revealed on the far side of the table. Martins sit down at
the table.

                         KURTZ
            Mr. Martins. Delighted to meet you.
            Come let's sit down here. Ober!
            Zwei. What would you like. Tea?
            Coffee?

                         MARTINS
            Coffee.

                         KURTZ
            Zwei zwartze.

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

who sits into picture full face, past Martins in L f.g.
Kurtz is still holding the book.

                         KURTZ
            It's wonderful how you keep the
            tension.

                         MARTINS
            Tension?
                         KURTZ
            Suspense.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

SHOOTING PAST Kurtz in R. f.g.

                         MARTINS
            You really liked it?

                         KURTZ
            At the end of every chapter --

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

SHOOTING PAST Martins in L. f.g.  He is looking at Martins.

                         KURTZ
            You are left guessing what he'll be
            up to next.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

Past Kurtz in R. f.g.

                         MARTINS
            So you were a friend of Harry's?

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

Past Martins in L. f.g.

                         KURTZ
            I think his best, except for you,
            of course.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

Past Kurtz in R. f.g.

                         MARTINS
            The police have a crazy notion that
            he was mixed up in some sort of
            racket.

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

Past Martins in L. foreground.  Traffic noise is heard.

                         KURTZ
            Everyone in Vienna is.  We all sell
            cigarettes and that kind of thing.
            I tell you I've done things that
            would have seemed unthinkable
            before the war. Once, when I was
            hard up, I sold some tires on the
            black market. I wonder what my
            father would have said.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

Past Kurtz in R. foreground.

                         MARTINS
            I'm afraid the police meant more
            than that.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

Looking off CL for Martins

                         KURTZ
            They get rather absurd ideas
            sometimes. He's somewhere now, he
            won't mind about that.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

Looking off CR for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Even so, I'm not going to leave it
            at this. Will you help me?

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

Looking off CR for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            I wish I could, but you know I am
            an Austrian. I have to be careful
            with the police. I'm afraid I can't
            help you, except with advice of
            course. Advice...

The music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - KURTZ - CL - MARTINS

walking down the street outside the building of Harry's
flat, which is CR.

They start to cross road, CAMERA PANNING RL with them. They
stop in the middle of the road. He stops and points out as
he speaks. He is holding a small dachshund in his arm.
Traffic noise is heard over scene.

                         KURTZ
            We came out of his place like this,
            and were walking this way. A friend
            of his called to him from over
            there. Harry went across and from
            up there came the truck. It was
            just about here.

                         MARTINS
            Here?

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

sweeping the road in front of Harry's apartment. He glances
up from his work to look off L at Martins and Kurtz.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            Yes.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS AND KURTZ

who is CR standing talking in the center of the street.

                         KURTZ
            His friend and I picked him up,
            carried him across over here.

They turn and start to cross to other side.  Car honks.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER'S WIFE

cleaning windows of apartment.  She is looking off CL for
Martins and Kurtz.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            It was a terrible thing. Terrible.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS - CL

Kurtz CR backs to camera walking upstage across the pavement.

                         KURTZ
            We laid him down just about here.
            And this is where he died.

They stop and Kurtz, the dog still in his arm, leans back
against a dustbin CR in L. profile, looking at Martins who
is facing him.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off CL for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            Even at the end, his thoughts...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Kurtz - in R. profile.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            ...were of you.

                         MARTINS
            What did he say?

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off CL for Martins. CAMERA PANS UP slightly as he
gets up from leaning position.

                         KURTZ
            I don't remember the exact words,
            Holly...I may call you Holly,
            mayn't I? He always called you that
            to us.
                   (dog whimpers)
            He was anxious that I look after
            you when you arrived.  To see that
            you got safely home. Tickets...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Kurtz - in R. profile.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            ...you know and all that.

                         MARTINS
            But he said he died instantaneously.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off L.

MED. LONG SHOT - PORTER

sweeping road outside Harry's apartment, from Kurtz' eye line.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off CL for Martins.  He glances off CR at the Porter.

                         KURTZ
            Well he died before the ambulance
            could reach us.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in R. profile looking off CR for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Well, there was only you, and this
            friend of his. Who is he?

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            A Roumanian.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off CL for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            Mr. Popescu.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Kurtz, in R. profile.

                         MARTINS
            I'd like to talk to him.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

Looking off CL for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            He's left Vienna.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

He steps forward and out of picture CR.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

Martins enters from CL crossing screen LR and exiting CR.
Kurtz looks after him. Dog whimpers.

EXT. HARRY'S APARTMENT - LONG SHOT

The porter, finished sweeping, is just going inside the door.
Martins moves upstage back to camera toward him.

                         MARTINS
            Excuse me!

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Yes, sir.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

in doorway. Martins enters to him from'CL and stands CL of
him in R. profile.

                         MARTINS
            Did you know Mr. Lime well?

                         PORTER
            Mr. Lime - yes.

                         MARTINS
            You remember me? Upstairs...

                         PORTER
            Yes, yes, I remember you.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

looking off past CR for Martins and Porter, he moves to exit
CR.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Well, who used to visit Mr. Lime?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND PORTER

at door.  Kurtz enters from f.g. and stands CR looking at them.

                         PORTER
            Visit? Was will er wissen?

                         KURTZ
            Er will wissen wer hier verkehrt.

                         PORTER
            So, es kommen so viele lauter
            heir - sie - den der...

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER'S WIFE

at window.  She turns away into the room.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            ...Popescu...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS, PORTER AND KURTZ CR

                         PORTER
            und ich kann nicht alle kennen.

                         MARTINS
            What does he say?

                         KURTZ
            He says he doesn't know everybody.

                         WIFE (O.S.)
            Carl.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER'S WIFE

at the door, looking off CL for the Porter.

                         WIFE
            Kannst due einen moment zu mir
            herein kommen?

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Kurtz tipping R edge of frame. He glances over his L
shoulder off CR for his wife. He turns back full face.

                         PORTER
            Ein moment.

MED. SHOT - PORTER'S WIFE

moves downstage.

                         WIFE
            Du musst zum telefon.

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Kurtz tipping R edge of frame. He turns away to exit CR.

                         PORTER
            Excuse me.

MED. SHOT - PORTER'S WIFE

The Porter comes in from CL; she shepherds him through the
door and inside.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking CR for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Who was at the funeral besides...

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...you.

                         KURTZ
            Only his doctor, Dr. Winkel.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Wasn't there a girl there?

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.  He steps forward.  Dog whines.

                         KURTZ
            Some girl of the Josefstadt theatre.
            Well you know what Harry was. You
            oughtn't to speak to her. It would
            only cause her pain.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Kurtz in R f.g. The latter steps up to Martins who
moves upstage -- slightly close to the wall of the building.
CAMERA TRACKS IN slightly and Martins takes up his position
CR of Kurtz, CAMERA HOLDING them in CLOSE SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            Not necessarily. She'd probably
            want to help.

                         KURTZ
            What's the good of another post
            mortem? Suppose you dig up
            something - well - discreditable to
            Harry?

                         MARTINS
            Will you give me...

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...your address?

                         KURTZ
            I live in the Russian sector, but
            you'll find me at the Casanova Club
            every night. One has to work...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurt in R f.g.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            ...the best way one can, you know.

                         MARTINS
            What's the name of this girl?

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.

                         KURTZ
            I don't know. I don't think I ever
            heard it.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurtz in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            But you did mention the theatre.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.

                         KURTZ
            The Josefstadt. But I still think
            it won't do Harry any good. You'd
            do better to think of yourself.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurtz in R f.g.  He smiles at Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            I'll be all right.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in L f.g.

                         KURTZ
            I'm so glad to have met you.

He crosses f.g. RL and exits CL in front of Martins.

MED. LONG SHOT - KURTZ AND MARTINS

backs to camera walking along the pavement with the building
of Harry's apartment CR of them.

Kurtz holds up Martins' book. CAMERA TRACKS with them. They
pass a commissionaire moving downstage who passes between them.

                         KURTZ
            A master of suspense. Such a good
            cover, I think.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. SHOT - PAINE AND MARTINS

at the reception desk of the hotel, Martins CR. The
Reception Porter far aside.

                         MARTINS
            Number 8, please.

Holding up ticket in hand.

                         PAINE
            Major Calloway's compliments, sir,
            and here's the ticket for the plane
            tomorrow.

                         MARTINS
            Tell the Major, I won't need it.

He turns from the desk to leave, to camera crossing f.g. LR
in CS. CAMERA PANNING with him, losing Paine. He calls back
to the Porter.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, and Porter, order me a ticket
            tonight for the Josefstadt theatre.

He starts to mount the stairs revealed in f.g., moving up
them back to camera. Crabbin, with his girl friend CR of him
is revealed coming down the CR side.

                         CRABBIN
            Oh, Mr. Martins, good evening.

                         MARTINS
            Good evening Mr. Crabbin.

Paine enters from CL f.g. and Crabbin and the girl with him
exit past him RL.

                         PAINE
            He said I was to drive you to the
            airfield or take you to the bus,
            whichever you prefer.

Paine holds up the ticket to Martins a few steps up looking
down CL at him.

                         MARTINS
            Didn't you hear Mr. Crabbin offer
            me the hospitality of the H.Q.B.M.T.?

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

INT. JOSEFSTADT THEATRE - LONG SHOT - THE STAGE

over the backs of the heads of audience in darkened theatre
in f.g.  A costume play is in progress. The stage is crowded
with actors bewigged and actresses in powdered wigs and
crinolines. Music starts.

                         ACTORS
                   (on stage)
            Ich bitte dich. Ich bitte dich. Ich
            bitte dich. Ferisiche uns jetzt nur
            nicht streng zu kommen...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated in stalls, L profile favoring camera. He is opening
his program to study it.

                         ACTORS (O.S.)
            ...sonze sagen wir alles der Frau
            Mama.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in L profile in powdered wig and costume on stage, performing.
CAMERA PANS RL with her as she, laughing, steps back to join
other actors revealed in L of picture.

                         ACTOR
            Um gotteswillem. Nein, nein, nur
            das nicht mein herzensguten wenn
            ich der Mama nicht zage das
            stubenmaedshen nich eimmer in die
            wange zwekst. Laesse du nich dann
            den Wolfgang Heiraten.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in L proflle looking at program then to stage.

                         ACTOR (O.S.)
            Jas das ist ja glatte expressung.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

on stage.

                         ACTORS
            Ja, ja, ja, - also - also.

                         ACTOR
            Ja, ja, ja, na wenn ich drei
            madelen nicht nat' dakonnt' ich mir
            auch drei...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

gets up from his seat at the end of the row to leave. He
exits CL.

                         ACTOR (O.S.)
            krenzottern halten. Giftiger -
            kommen die auch nicht stechen. au...

MED. LONG SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CR moving upstage back to camera, along a
corridor to backstage. A man crosses the corridor LR from
door to door in front of Martins. Hand clapping and music is
heard.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

backstage, she moves downstage to CS. CAMERA PANNING RL with
her as she leans against pillar in L f.g.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Anna. He moves forward into CLOSEUP fully
opening the door - part opening through which we have seen him.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

in R profile leaning by pillar, looking down, adjusting her
costume. Other artists around her.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

at open door, looking in CR at her.

                         MARTINS
            I was a friend of Harry Lime's.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

as she looks up, reacting to him off CL. Other artists
around her.

                         ANNA
            Afterwards.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

makes her way on stage from the wings, moving upstage, back
to camera. Girls laughing on stage.

Actor on stage speaks over the laughter.

                         ACTOR
            Ich habe gleich fier mid geniesse
            das ehelebon in vierfacher auflage.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

on stage curtseying, looking laughingly up off L for her
actor partner. Laughing, on stage.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

at door looking off CL for Anna. Music over.  Chatter from
stage.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

on stage looking off CR for Martins in wings. She gets to
her feet from curtseying position, helped by her partner's
hand from off L.

                         ACTOR
            Kind das nene chiffonk leid furdich
            ist bestellt.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at open door of Anna's dressing room. Anna's maid exits past
him through door.

                         MAID
            Good night.

                         ANNA
            Good night.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated in L profile at her dressing table, she is removing
the jewelry from her costume. Jewelry drops onto dressing
table. Music stops.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in open doorway looking off CL into the dressing room for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Miss Schmidt?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated at dressing table, looks up off R for Martins at the
door. She gets up out of picture LR as we cut.

                         ANNA
            Oh, come in.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

comes into picture from CL to Martins who moves downstage
slightly to her from the door. Girl enters from CL and exits
through door. CAMERA PANS L slightly as they move to
dressing table.

                         MARTINS
            Thank you.

                         ANNA
            Sit down.

                         MARTINS
            Thank you. I enjoyed the play very
            much.

                         GIRL
                   (exiting)
            Guten nacht, Anna.

                         ANNA
            Guten nacht.

Martins sits down at the dressing table.

                         MARTINS
            You were awfully good.

                         ANNA
            Do you understand German?

                         MARTINS
            No, no...oh...excuse me.

He gets up, realising he has been sitting on something,
crushable. He stands in R f.g. so that we shoot past his L
shoulder to CLOSE SHOT of Anna standing with her back to the
dressing table.

                         MARTINS
            But I could follow it fine. Perhaps
            Harry told you about me. My name's
            Holly Martins.

                         ANNA
            No, he never told me about his
            friends. Would you like some tea?

She has picked up a packet of tea, and is holding it up in
her hand.

                         MARTINS
            Thank you.

CAMERA PANS RL as she crosses over to small stove - losing
Martins. She stands in front of it and glances off R for
Martins.

                         ANNA
            Someone threw me a packet last week.
            Sometimes the British do, instead
            of flowers you know, on the first
            night.

She picks up a bottle and holds it up, showing it to him.

                         ANNA
            There was a bouquet too, from an
            American. Would you rather have a
            whiskey?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

standing, looking off CL for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Tea's fine.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in L profile at stove.

                         ANNA
            Good, I wanted to sell it. Oh,
            there's some tea left.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna, he moves forward.

                         MARTINS
            Had you known him - some time?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

holding cup and saucer in hand, looking CR for Martins off.

                         ANNA
            Yes.

Martins enters from CR and CAMERA PANS LR slightly to center
them in a TWO SHOT.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Anna in L f.g. She hands him the cup and saucer and he
holds it in both hands. She offers him an open tin of milk.

                         MARTINS
            I wanted to talk to you. - No,
            thank you. I wanted to talk to you
            about him.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Martins in R f.g.

                         ANNA
            There's nothing really to talk
            about, is there? Nothing.

She moves forward as if to exit CR.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

moves into her chair in front of the dressing table in
profile. Martins is seen upstage of her - standing at her R
side full face looking down at her. She takes off her wig.

                         MARTINS
            Well, I saw you at the funeral.

                         ANNA
            I'm so sorry, I didn't notice much.

                         MARTINS
            You were in love with him, weren't
            you?

                         ANNA
            I don't know. How can you know a
            thing like that afterwards. I don't
            know anything any more.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

in L profile seated in front of dressing table taking off
her false eye-lashes.

                         ANNA
            Except that I want to be dead too.
            Some more tea?

She looks up at him off CL.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down off CR for Anna, seated.

                         MARTINS
            No, not tea. Would you like a
            cigarette?

CAMERA PANS LR with him as he moves to offer her one from a
packet.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated at dressing table. Martins standing upstage of her at
her R side, facing camera (head out of picture above frame).
She takes one of the cigarettes he offers her. She runs her
fingers through her hair. He sits down into picture upstage
of the corner of the dressing table in R profile, looking at
her.

                         ANNA
            Oh, American, thank you. I like them.

                         MARTINS
            I was talking to another friend of
            Harry's. A Baron Kurtz - do you
            know him?

He lights her cigarette.

                         ANNA
            No.

                         MARTINS
            He has a little dog.

                         ANNA
            Oh, yes, yes.

Anna puts her cigarette down. She picks up the wig block at
her side and mounts her wig on it.
                         MARTINS
            Don't understand what Harry saw in
            a fellow like that.

                         ANNA
            That was the man that brought me
            some money when Harry died. He said
            Harry had been anxious at the last
            moment.

Anna starts to work on the curls of the wig.  Re-dressing it.

                         MARTINS
            He said he remembered me too. Seems
            to show he wasn't in much pain.

                         ANNA
            Dr. Winkel told me that.

                         MARTINS
            Dr. Winkel? Who is he?

                         ANNA
            The doctor Harry used to go to. He
            was passing just after it happened.

                         MARTINS
            His own doctor?

                         ANNA
            Yes.

                         MARTINS
            Were you at the inquest?

Still working on the wig.

                         ANNA
            Yes. They said it wasn't the
            driver's fault. Harry often said
            what a careful driver he was.

                         MARTINS
            He was Harry's driver?

                         ANNA
            Mmmm.

He starts to get up from chair.

                         MARTINS
            I don't get it...

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

makes last move up from chair, and moves away back to camera
upstage. He walks up and down as he speaks.

                         MARTINS
            All of them there. Kurtz, this
            Roumanian, Popescu, his own driver
            knocking him over. His own doctor
            passing by. No strangers there...

CLOSEUP - ANNA

working on the curls on her wig.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...at all.

                         ANNA
            I know. I wondered about it a
            hundred times, if it really was an
            accident.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

back to camera, swings round full face to look off past CR
at Anna, reacting to her remark. Music crescendo.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

working on wig, looking up off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            What difference does it make? He's
            dead, isn't he?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Well, if it wasn't an acci...

                         MANAGER (O.S.)
            Miss Schmidt!

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

at dressing table, working at wig. She looks up off CR,
reacting to Manager's summons.

                         ANNA
            Ja, herr Hogan. I must hurry. They
            don't like us to use the light.

She gets up and moves to exit CL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            The porter saw it happen.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

undoing the back of her dress, partly concealed behind her
dressing table, which she is using as a screen.

                         ANNA
            Then why worry?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking at his watch.

                         MARTINS
            Do you know that porter?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

behind dressing table looking off CR for Martins. She
hesitates before she answers.

                         ANNA
            Yes.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

INT. LIVING ROOM - HARRY'S APARTMENT - MED. SHOT

The Porter moves upstage to the closed windows followed by
Anna, CL and Martins. He opens them.

                         PORTER
            Sehen sie da gleich da unter. Da
            unten ist est passiert. Passiert -
            English.

                         MARTINS
            What's he saying?

                         ANNA
            He says it happened right down there.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER AND MARTINS

CR in L profile looking at him.

                         PORTER
            Happened...Yes happened right down
            there.

                         MARTINS
            You saw it?

                         PORTER
            Not saw, heard...heard. I heard the
            brakes. Wham! And I got to the
            window and saw them carry the body
            to the other side of the er...er
            Joseph...that's Joseph Emperor
            Joseph Statue.

                         MARTINS
            Why didn't they bring him in the
            house?

LONG SHOT - ANNA

moves through the open doors from the living room into the
bedroom and switches on the light. In the b.g. Porter and
Martins can still be seen, standing together at the window,
talking.

CAMERA TRACKS BACK with her. She takes off hat and moves to
sit down at dressing table.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

sits into position at the dressing table, and taking comb
from dressing table drawer starts to comb her hair.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER AND MARTINS

who is CR - both in profile, talking to each other.

                         MARTINS
            Could he have been conscious?

                         PORTER
            Conscious? Cas soll ich auch noch
            wissen?

                         MARTINS
            Oh, er - oh...was he - was he still
            alive?

                         PORTER
            Er, alive? He couldn't have been
            alive, not with his head in the way
            it was.

                         MARTINS
            I was told that he did not die at
            once.

                         PORTER
            Ah, er war gleich tot - I mean, sie
            war gleich tot - brauchen kein
            angst zu. Ein moment...Wart ein
            bissel...Wartein bissel. Fraulein
            Schmidt!

LONG SHOT - PORTER

walking through the living room downstage toward the bedroom.
Martins enters from the window CL b.g. and follows after him.

                         PORTER
            Wis sagt men in English gleich tot?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

combing her hair at the dressing table in R profile.

                         ANNA
            He was quite dead.

LONG SHOT - PORTER

in living room facing camera, looking off into bedroom. He
turns round to left and right looking for Martins, then
discovers him behind him.

                         PORTER
            He was quite dead.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

at dressing table in R profile looking into the mirror off R.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            But that sounds crazy. If he was...

CLOSEUP - INSERT

Anna picks up a photograph without a frame, of herself
standing at the open door of a car, waving.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...killed at once, how could he
            have talked about me, and this lady
            here, after he was dead?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated at dressing table in R profile. She puts the
photograph in the drawer of the dressing table.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Why didn't you say all this at the
            inquest?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g. He walks to Martins and stands CL of
him L profile favoring.

                         PORTER
            It is better not to be mixed up in
            things like this.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Things like what?

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Martins in R f.g.

                         PORTER
            I was not the only one who did not...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            ...give evidence.

                         MARTINS
            Who else?

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Martins in R f.g.

                         PORTER
            Three men helped to carry your
            friend to the statue.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Kurtz.

                         PORTER
            Yes.

                         MARTINS
            The Roumanian?

                         PORTER
            Yes.

                         MARTINS
            And?

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Martins in R. f.g.

                         PORTER
            There was a third man - he didn't
            give evidence.

                         MARTINS
            You don't mean that doctor?

                         PORTER
            No, no. He came late after they
            carried him to the Joseph Statue.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            What did this man look like?

CLOSEUP - PORTER

past Martins in R f.g.

                         PORTER
            I didn't see his face...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Porter in L f.g.  He exits CL.

                         PORTER
            He didn't look up.

CLOSEUP - PORTER

looking off CR after Martins.

                         PORTER
            He was quite - gewernlich...ordinary.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

moves RL to the open window CL and stands looking out of it
to the street below.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            He might have been...

LONG SHOT

the lamp lit street below from Martins eye line as he looks
out of the window.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Just anybody...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in L profile looking down off L out of the window.

                         MARTINS
            Just anybody.

The telephone rings off.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

sits into position LR on the bed CL of bedside table. She
picks up the phone to answer it. In the b.g. in living room
beyond we see the Porter. As she answers - she idly opens
the lid of a box at the side of the bed on the table, and
taking dice and shaker from it starts to throw them. Martins
comes into picture from CL in living room in b.g.

                         ANNA
            Hullo...hullo. Wer ist da? Hullo?
            Warum antworten sie nicht? Hullo?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

with Porter CR of him from Anna's eye line. They are both
looking off CR for Anna. She replaces phone on hook.

                         MARTINS
            Who was that?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on the bedside table rolling dice.

                         ANNA
            I don't know. They didn't answer.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            I was told there were only two men
            there.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

walks upstage a few steps to stand close CL of the Porter in
R profile, talking to him.

                         MARTINS
            You gotta tell your story to the
            police.

                         PORTER
            Police? Why police? Das ist alles
            blodsum was sie da sangen. No, no.
            It is all nonsense; it was an
            accident.

                         MARTINS
            You don't know it was an accident.
            You only saw a dead man and three
            men carry him.

                         PORTER
            Der ami macht mich noch ganz
            deppert. I should have listened to
            my wife. She said you were up to no
            good. Gossip.

                         MARTINS
            Suppose I take...

CLOSE SHOT

floor between wide open double doors from living room to
landing beyond. A large, child's rubber ball rolls through
them into the room.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...your evidence to the police?

CLOSE SHOT

on to landing through wide open doors. A woolly mitten
appears round the CR door, and then slowly the face of a
small boy, dressed for the street, appears round the corner
of the door. He looks off CL, reacting to the two men's
angry words.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Fer von mir aus gehen sie zur
            gansalt aber mich lassen sie aus
            mit der politzei.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Now, hold on.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Das hat man davon wenn man
            freundlich ist mit den auslandern...

LONG SHOT

CAMERA TILTED at an angle, from the boy's eye line. Porter
CL in the living room - and Martins CR - Martins back to
camera.

                         PORTER
            I have no evidence. I saw nothing.
            I said nothing. It's not my business.

                         MARTINS
            Well make it your business.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL

in the doorway looking off CL for the two men.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Ach jetzt hates aber zwolte
            geschlagen. Jetzt heh'ma aber.

LONG SHOT

CAMERA TILTED - Porter with Martins CR. Anna enters from
bedroom in b.g. putting out light. She moves downstage to
the two men. The Porter picks up the rubber ball and throws
it off CL to the boy.

                         PORTER
            ...Fr  lein Schmidt...ebs sie waren
            mir mier sympatische. I have always
            liked you but you must not bring
            this gentleman here again. You must
            go at once please. Sonst fergesseich
            meinen wienerischen charm. Please.

MED. SHOT - HANSEL

picks up ball as it rolls into picture and runs off with it
upstage along the corridor outside the room.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:
LONG SHOT

Anna CL and Martins walking side by side along the wet
lamplit street. Buildings CL of the pavement. CAMERA TRACKS
BACK with them. They stop in CS in f.g.

                         ANNA
            You shouldn't get mixed up in this.

                         MARTINS
            Well, if I do find out something,
            can I look you up again?

                         ANNA
            Why don't you leave this town - go
            home?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - LANDLADY

eider-down wrapped round her shoulders over clothes - hair
unkempt, calling to Anna who enters from R f.g.

                         WOMAN
            Wo unglaublich stecken sie denn
            Fraulein Schmidt. Die Politzei is
            oben.

She opens the wrought iron doorway.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking up off CL at the building.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Sie suchen nach papieron.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CL and Anna looking up off CL to the building's higher stories.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Une lesen alle ihre briefe.

LONG SHOT

the lighted windows above from Anna and Martins eye line.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Als wenn man ein werbrecher ware.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND ANNA

looking off CL for the Landlady.

                         MARTINS
            What is it?

CLOSE SHOT - LANDLADY

looking off CR for Martins and Anna

                         WOMAN
            Was will die politzei von ihnen?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND ANNA

looking up off CL. Anna turns away. Martins looks after her
then off CL for Landlady.

                         ANNA
            Ich weiss nicht.

                         WOMAN
            Das mussen sie doch wissen. Ich
            meine ohne grund wird die politzei
            doch nicht ins Hans komme Fraulein
            Schmidt, ein schande...

                         MARTINS
            What's she talking about?

                         ANNA
            The police. They're searching my
            room. Sie mussen doch wissen.

MED. SHOT - LANDLADY

in doorway. Anna and Martins enter from CR f.g., and
crossing in front of her enter the building.

                         WOMAN
            Une was es sich handelt, Mein Eott
            das ist doch ichrecklich.,..

LONG SHOT

from top of stairs Anna comes through archway at bottom of
stone stairs followed by Martins and the Landlady.

                         WOMAN
            Man ist ja nicht mehr herr in
            seinem eigenen Hans.

MED. SHOT - OLD LADY

looking through the iron bannister rails off R. at Martins
and Anna as they mount the stairs.

                         WOMAN
            Wein es noch die Oesterreichische
            politzei ware...

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

led by Anna walking along corridor from stone stairs. CAMERA
PANS LR with them revealing a marble corridor and they walk
upstage along this, backs to camera.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            ...einen nach rechtzatig.

LONG SHOT

Anna's room, the Police of the International Patrol, with
the Austrian police, are searching it. Opening drawers,
turning things over, etc. Anna followed by Martins enters
from CR and moves downstage to Calloway in f.g.

                         MARTINS
            What the devil?

                         CALLOWAY
            Getting around, Martins.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, pinning things on girls now.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in L f.g. MP's of the patrol seen in b.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            Miss Schmidt, I should like to see
            your papers, please.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Calloway in R f.g. - Martins enters CR of her just
behind her L shoulder.

                         MARTINS
            Don't give him anything.

Anna takes out her passport and hands it to Calloway.
Martins turns away.

                         CALLOWAY
            Thank you.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in L f.g. He looks at her passport.

                         CALLOWAY
            You were born in Graz of Austrian...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

Calloway in R f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...parents.

                         ANNA
            Yes.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine.

He takes a step LR CAMERA PANNING WITH HIM to reveal Paine,
and lose Anna. He shows Paine the passport. They stand
together - Paine CR looking at it. Paine holds it up to the
light.

                         CALLOWAY
            Hmmm.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Paine and Calloway.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY AND PAINE

                         PAINE
            It's very good sir, isn't it?

Calloway looks off CL for Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            How much did you pay...

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...for this?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY AND PAINE

looking at passport, then off CL for Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'm afraid I'll have to keep this -

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for them.

                         CALLOWAY
             - for a while Miss Schmidt.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway. Soldiers in b.g. still
searching room.

                         MARTINS
            How do you expect her to live in
            this city without papers?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY AND PAINE

Calloway hands passport to Paine who exits CL - and Calloway
moves away upstage - CAMERA PANNING RL slightly, and
revealing Anna and holding her in CLOSE SHOT. In b.g.
Martins is discovered; he follows Calloway to the back of
the room.

                         CALLOWAY
            Write her out a receipt, Paine.
            Give her a receipt for these
            letters too.

                         PAINE
            This way, miss.

Anna exits quickly CL.

                         MARTINS
            I suppose it wouldn't interest you
            to know that Lime was murdered?
            You're too busy. You haven't even
            bothered to get complete evidence.

MED. SHOT - PAINE

In L f.g. seated at a table, he is holding a few letters in
his hands. Anna walks up to the table CR of him.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

seated at table, letters in hand. Anna enters from CL to
stand at his side, CAMERA TRACKS IN to hold them in CLOSE SHOT.

                         ANNA
            Must you take those?

                         PAINE
            They'll be returned, miss.

                         ANNA
            They are - private - letters.

                         PAINE
            That's all right, miss, don't worry.
            We're used to it - like doctors.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY AND MARTINS

CR of him. Police around them still carrying an the search.
There is a slight commotion.

                         MARTINS
            And there was a third man there. I
            suppose that doesn't sound peculiar
            to you.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'm not interested in whether a
            racketeer like Lime was killed by
            his friends or by accident. The
            only important thing is that he's
            dead.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR reacting to his remark.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            I'm sorry.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

Martins steps up beside him CL.

                         MARTINS
            Tactful too, aren't we, Callaghan?

                         CALLOWAY
            Calloway.

Anna enters from CL, CAMERA TRACKS BACK PANNING LR losing
Martins - Calloway stops in f.g. in CLOSE SHOT having walked
downstage a little way - Anna walks beside him and stops
beside him CL - and they are held in CLOSE SHOT TOGETHER.

                         ANNA
            Must you take those letters?
                         CALLOWAY
            Yes, I'm afraid so.

                         ANNA
            They're Harry's.

                         CALLOWAY
            That's the reason.

                         ANNA
            You won't learn anything from them.
            They are only love letters. There
            are not many of them.

                         CALLOWAY
            They'll be returned to you, Miss
            Schmidt, as soon as they've been
            examined.

                         ANNA
            There's nothing in them.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Calloway in R f.g.

                         ANNA
            Harry never did any thing. Only a
            small thing once, out of kindness.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            And what was that?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Calloway in R f.g.

                         ANNA
            You've got it in your hand.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna. He reacts off L as the M.P. calls him.

                         M.P. (O.S.)
            Mr. Calloway!

CLOSE SHOT - AMERICAN M.P.

past Russian M.P. in L f.g. and Austrian policemen in R of
picture.

                         AMERICAN M.P.
            Finished?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Yes.

                         AMERICAN M.P.
            Okay.

He signals to his partners that the search is over and
throws some papers back in a drawer that has been taken out.
Moves to exit CR.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            You'll have to come with us...

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Miss Schmidt.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            You're not locking her up?

Anna moves to exit CL.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Go home, Martins, like a sensible
            chap. You don't know what you're
            mixing in.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS AND CALLOWAY

who turns away and walks behind Martins RL. CAMERA PANS RL
SLIGHTLY with him. Policemen cross f.g. RL. CAMERA PANS LR
again. Calloway moves downstage again CR and in front of
Martins who looks after him. He moves to exit.

                         CALLOWAY
            Get the next plane.

                         MARTINS
            As soon as I get to the bottom of
            this, I'll get the next plane.

                         CALLOWAY
            Death is at the bottom of
            everything, Martins. Leave death to
            the professionals.

                         MARTINS
            Do you mind if I use that line in
            my next Western? You can't chuck me
            out, my papers are in order.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in kitchen alcove with Paine CR of her. He has the letters
in his hand which he passes to her.

                         PAINE
            There you are, miss, your receipt
            for the letters.

                         ANNA
            I don't want it.

                         PAINE
            Well, I've got it when you want it,
            miss.

He moves away upstage back into the main part of the room
again. Martins enters to her from the room, and stands CR of
her.

                         MARTINS
            Anything really wrong with your
            papers?

                         ANNA
            They're forged.

                         MARTINS
            Why?

                         ANNA
            The Russians would claim me. I come
            from Czechoslovakia.

MED. SHOT - GERMAN LANDLADY

with police searching the room around her. She is clutching
the eiderdown about her. She speaks to a Russian soldier in
L f.g. who ignores her.

                         WOMAN
            Wie die Vandalen! Ja sie wo
            schlep - wo schleppen sie schlon
            das wieder hir! Mein gott sie
            kommen doch nicht das gause Hans
            auf den Kopf stellen S...Monsieur
            och versteht er auch nicht - Mensch
            zimmer einer-dame.

CAMERA PANS R with her as she moves LR to a British soldier
revealed in R f.g., who moves across screen RL paying no
attention to her. CAMERA PANS RL again with her revealing an
American MP in CLOSE SHOT in L f.g. going over the content
of a box in his hands. He ignores her and exits CL putting
down the box. She looks off CL for Anna.

                         WOMAN
            Fraulein Schmidt - erklaren sie
            doch...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR for the Landlady. Martins CR of her turns his
head to look at Anna then off R for the Landlady.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Den leuten.

                         ANNA
            Ja, ja, ja.

                         WOMAN
            Sayen sie ed our den Leuten damit
            sie es auch wissen.

                         MARTINS
            What did she say?

CLOSE SHOT - LANDLADY

looking off. CL for Anna.

                         WOMAN
            Hier sind fruher Fursten ans unt
            eingeganger. Hier hat sogar ein
            Metternich verkehrt...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

                         ANNA
            Give her some cigarettes.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Das worren nooh zeiten.

MED. SHOT - LANDLADY

soldiers in b.g.

                         WOMAN
            Da hut man sich noch austandig
            benomen da war?

Martins enters from CL and holds out a packet of cigarettes
to her.

                         MARTINS
            Cigarette?

Paine enters from CR. She takes one.

                         WOMAN
            Danke, danke.

                         MARTINS
            Please take some more.

Calloway is seen behind and between Martins and the Landlady.

                         WOMAN
            ...sehr liebernsurdig danke, danke,
            danke vielmals sie sind wieklich
            der einsige austandige Mensch hier...

Calloway calls off CL to Anna, and Paine in R f.g. watches him.

                         CALLOWAY
            Miss Schmidt...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

standing at the window. A kitten seen on the window sill
outside.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Ready?

She turns to look back over her L shoulder CR for Calloway.
Martins enters from CR f.g. to stand CL of her.

                         MARTINS
            Look, look, I'll straighten out all
            this nonsense about Harry. You'll
            be all right.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins. She turns and exits CR.

                         ANNA
            Sometimes he said I laughed too much.

MED. SHOT - DOORWAY

crowded with police exiting through it. Anna comes through
the door escorted by two Austrian police, with Paine seen
behind her CL. CAMERA TRUCKS BACK as they come out of the
door. Martins pushes his way through the group behind Anna,
and makes his way to side of CR policemen and calls across
him to Anna RL.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, what was the name of that
            doctor? Harry's doctor?

                         ANNA
            Dr. Winkel.

She exits CL and as the doorway clears of police, Calloway
appears in it behind Martins and CL of him.

                         CALLOWAY
            What do you want to see a doctor
            for, huh?

                         MARTINS
            A bruised lip.

Calloway exits CL into the corridor, after Anna and Paine.
As he does so, the Landlady appears in the open doorway.

LONG SHOT

of the hall, Anna escorted, in b.g. moving upstage along the
corridor back to camera, followed by Paine, and Calloway
enters from CR calling to Martins off.

                         PAINE
            Good!

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT

a drawer taken out of its chest resting on Calloway's desk.
Music starts. It contains some papers - boxes of powder, etc.
Some hands from CR replace some things - another soldier's
hands from off L put some papers back in the drawer.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Laboratory?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR for Calloway and other soliders.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            We're coming right down.

LONG SHOT- THREE M.P.'S

group round Calloway's desk. Calloway is standing behind it.
CAMERA PANS RL as carrying the drawer the soldiers followed
by Calloway cross the room, revealing Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            You wait here, Miss Schmidt.

The soldier exits through door CL followed by Calloway. She
walks downstage to CLOSE SHOT. CAMERA TRUCKING BACK WITH HER.
She looks out of the window which looks on to the corridor -
and a soldier passes along it.

LONG SHOT

from Anna's eye line of a wide open door to an office on
opposite side of the corridor. An Austrian policeman showing
a Russian officer some papers. The open door bears the
inscription: "RUSSIAN LIAISON OFFICER."

The policeman moves towards door as if to exit.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking through window into the corridor off CL.

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

leaving the Russian office walking RL CAMERA TRACKING BACK
with him and PANNING DOWN to CLOSE SHOT of Anna's passport
which he is looking at held open in his hands - we see her
photograph.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking out of the window CR watching for the policeman off.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

walking down dark street, buildings on CR and CL. He is
smoking. Music stops. Footsteps are heard on pavement and a
tug hoots...

CLOSE SHOT - CHICKEN

being carved on a plate - from CR.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Haben sie lieber den flugel oder
            das bein?

CLOSE SHOT

the closed front door, past Martins in R f.g. The door opens
a little and a maid appears, she looks out at Martins.

                         MAID
            Die sprechstund zwischen is von
            drei bis funf...

                         MARTINS
            Dr. Winkel - I'm sorry I don't
            speak German.

                         MAID
            Nein.

                         MARTINS
            Please, won't you say that I'm a
            friend of Harry Lime...

CLOSE SHOT - CHICKEN

being carved from off CR.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Hilda!

                         MAID (O.S.)
            Ja.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Fuhren sie den herre herein.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MAID

in doorway past Martins in R f.g. Martins steps forward back
to camera, and taking off his hat enters past her.

                         MAID
            Bitte.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

comes into the living room ushered by the maid. She closes
the double doors behind him exiting. We hear a clock chiming.

                         MAID
            Bitte sir.

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

looking through glass door into room at Martins off CR.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

in the living room turns looking around him.

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

moves round the glass door and moves forward exiting CR, to
enter the living room.

                         WINKEL
            Guton...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

turns round full face and looks off CL for Winkel reacting
to hearing his voice.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            ...abend.

CLOSE SHOT- WINKEL

Martins enters from CR f.g. and we shoot past him in R f.g.
CAMERA TRACKS BACK slightly.

                         MARTINS
            Dr. Winkel?

                         WINKEL
            Vinkel.

                         MARTINS
            Vinkel...You've got quite a
            collection of er-collection.

                         WINKEL
            Yes.

CLOSE SHOT - DACHSHUND

looking up off CR for his master. Dog yelps.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down CR for dog.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Was wilst du hier?

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

looking down CL for the dog.

                         WINKEL
            Du hast hier earnichts verloren
            mach dass du rauskommst. Ja, komm,
            komm, komm, komm, komm, hier...

CLOSE SHOT - DOG

sitting on carpet looking up off CR. He exits CR.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Komm, sei brav nu sei bray ja...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down off CL for the dog.

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            Nu mach schon - mach schon.

CLOSE SHOT - GROUND

between open doors. Winkel's foot hustles the dog through it
LR.

                         WINKEL
            Mach schon. So, so is gut.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Winkel. He steps forward.

                         MARTINS
            Is that your dog?

MED. SHOT - WINKEL

walking down stage from the door. Martins enters from CR and
crosses to stand CL of him.

                         WINKEL
            Yes. Would you mind...er...er....

CAMERA TRACKS BACK as Winkel walking to camera pulls forward
a chair for Martins in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Martins.

                         WINKEL
            Coming to the point, please.

                         MARTINS
            Thank you.

                         WINKEL
            I have guests waiting.

Martins crosses in front of Winkel and sits down in chair in
L profile - Winkel standing CL of him looking down at him.

                         MARTINS
            We were both friends of Harry Lime.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated in chair, past Winkel in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I want to find out all I can.

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

standing looking down at Martins in R f.g.

                         WINKEL
            Find out?

                         MARTINS
            Hear the details.

                         WINKEL
            I can tell you very little. He was
            run over by a car. He was dead when
            I arrived.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated, past Winkel in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Who was with him?

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

past Martins in R f.g.

                         WINKEL
            Two friends of his.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTIN

past Winkel in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Sure, two?

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

past Martins in R f.g. He exits CL.

                         WINKEL
            Quite sure.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated in chair, looking off CL for Winkel.

                         MARTINS
            Could he have been at all conscious?

                         WINKEL (O.S.)
            I understand...

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

entering from CR moving RL in L profile. He stops in front
of a candle stick and pulls at the unlighted wick. He turns
his head to look off CR for Martins.

                         WINKEL
            ...he was. Yes, for a short time,
            while they carried him across the
            road.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            In great pain?

                         WINKEL
            Not necessarily.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated looking off CL for Winkel.

                         MARTINS
            Well, could he have been capable of
            making plans...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - DR. WINKEL

pacing up and down in a small area. He walks downstage RL
into CLOSE SHOT. CAMERA PANNING WITH HIM and stops behind a
small ornamental statue on a table.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...for me and others, just...just
            during those few moments? I
            understand he left some instruction
            before he died.

He blows some imaginary dust off the statue.

                         WINKEL
            I cannot give any opinion. I was
            not there. My opinion is limited as
            to the cause of death.

He looks off R for Martins.

                         WINKEL
            Have you any reason to be
            dissatisfied?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated in chair looking off CL for Winkel.

                         MARTINS
            Was - is it possible that his death
            might have been - not accidental?

CLOSEUP - WINKEL

looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Could he have been...could he have
            been...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Winkel.

                         MARTINS
            pushed, Dr. Winkel?

CLOSE SHOT - WINKEL

looking off CR for Martins.

                         WINKEL
            I cannot give an opinion, the
            injuries to the head and skull
            would have been the same.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:
MED. SHOT - ANNA

CAMERA PANNING RL with her as she walks along the glass
partition of Calloway's office overlooking the corridor.
Calloway comes into picture from CL walking toward the door.
As he opens the door we see the Russian Officer in the
opposite office, papers in hand, looking at Calloway.

                         RUSSIAN
            Major, may I see you for a moment,
            please?

Calloway turns back.

                         CALLOWAY
            Certainly, Brodsky.

CLOSE SHOT - BRODSKY

Calloway enters from CR and stands in L profile CR of him as
Russian turns over pages of passport.

                         CALLOWAY
            What is it?

                         RUSSIAN
            This is forgery. It is very clever.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

behind CR side of open glass door to Calloway's office
looking off CL for him.

                         RUSSIAN (O.S.)
            We are interested in this case.
            Have you arrested the girl?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            No, not yet.

CLOSE SHOT - BRODSKY AND CALLOWAY

The former gives Calloway the passport.

                         RUSSIAN
            Please keep this passport to
            yourself, until I make some
            inquiries, will you, Major?

                         CALLOWAY
            Yes, of course.

                         RUSSIAN
            Thank you.

Brodsky exits into his office again.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

enters from CL to Anna in R f.g. CAMERA TRACKS AND PANS LR,
as he crosses screen then exits CR - but holding Anna in
CLOSEUP.

                         CALLOWAY
            Right. Sit down Miss Schmidt, we
            will send your letters and things
            back to you.

                         ANNA
            And my passport?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

behind his desk.

                         CALLOWAY
            We will need that for a while longer.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

turns away.

MED. LONG SHOT - BRODSKY

in his office taking down a file from the cabinet - across
the corridor, from Anna's eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in L profile looking off CL for the Russian.

                         ANNA
            What does he mean?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

at his desk looking off CL for Anna. He picks up a photo
from his desk and moving round it CAMERA PANNING RL with him
in CLOSEUP - Anna is revealed. He stops in profile Anna CR
of him - and we hold them in a CLOSE SHOT.

                         CALLOWAY
            You know as much as I do, Miss
            Schmidt - you were intimate with
            Lime, weren't you?

                         ANNA
            We loved each other, do you mean that?

He holds a photograph of a man up to her.

                         CALLOWAY
            Do you know this man?

                         ANNA
            I have never seen him.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Anna in R f.g. He is holding up the photograph to her.

                         CALLOWAY
            Joseph Harbin...

                         ANNA
            No.

                         CALLOWAY
            He works in a military hospital.

                         ANNA
            No.

                         CALLOWAY
            It's stupid to lie to me, Miss
            Schmidt. I'm in a position to help
            you.

He turns away and exits CR. Anna turns in R profile and
looks after him CR.

                         ANNA
            I'm not lying. You're wrong about
            Harry - you are wrong about
            everything.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

hands in pockets standing behind his desk looking off CL for
Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            In one of his letters he asked you
            to telephone - a good friend of his
            called Joseph. He gave you the
            number of the Casanova Club. That
            is where a lot of friends of Lime
            used to go.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

                         ANNA
            It wasn't important.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            What was the message?

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         ANNA
            Something about meeting Harry at
            his home.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            Harbin disappeared the day you
            telephoned. We've got to find him.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            You can help us.

                         ANNA
            What can I tell you but that you
            have got everything upside down.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Anna. He turns to window CAMERA PANNING
LR slightly with him.

                         CALLOWAY
            Okay. That American friend of yours
            is still waiting for you.

LONG SHOT - THE STREET - FROM CALLOWAY'S EYE LINE

Martins pacing on the far corner - looking up at the window.
Tram passes LR.

                         CALLOWAY
            He won't do you much good.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

at the window. He turns baok to look off CL for Anna. Music
starts.

                         CALLOWAY
            Thank you, Miss Schmidt. We will
            send for you when we want you.

He moves over to CL window CAMERA PANNING RL slightly with
him. Tram running along.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

in R profile eyes lowered. She turns away.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - NEON SIGN

over club entrance reading: CASANOVA REVUE BUHNE BAR.
Traffic noise.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

entering the club RL past a commissionaire, followed by
Martins.

                         DOORMAN
            Bitte schoen.

CAMERA PANS RL as they leave door and move into hall losing
the door, and revealing Crabbin and his girl friend. Anna
exits. Martins stands CL of Crabbin, they shake hands - the
girl stands CR of Crabbin waiting for him.

                         CRABBIN
            Hello - Mr. Martins, we tried to
            get you at your hotel. We have
            arranged that lecture for tomorrow.

                         MARTINS
            What about?

                         CRABBIN
            On the modern novel - you remember
            what we arranged and we want you to
            talk on the Crisis of Faith.

Crabbin's friend exits CR and Martins hands his hat and coat
to the hat check girl.

                         MARTINS
            What's that?

                         CRABBIN
            Oh, I thought you would know,
            you're a writer. Of course you do.
            Good night, old man.

He starts to exit CR then turns back.

                         CRABBIN
            Oh, I've forgotten my hat. I'll let
            you know the time later.

Crabbin exits CR and CAMERA TRACKS BACK as Martins walks
forward to CLOSE SHOT. CAMERA PANS RL with him as he turns
to his R and walks through archway into the empty bar
revealed beyond. Anna the only customer is seated back to
camera on a stool at the bar - the barman CR of her. She is
the only customer. Martins walks upstage to her, back to
camera.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated in R profile at the bar. Martins comes to stand at
her R side - looks at her for a moment - then turns to lean
with his back against the bar facing her - in L profile.

                         MARTINS
            Drink?

                         ANNA
            Whiskey.

To bartender off R.

                         MARTINS
            Two whiskeys.

CLOSE SHOT - FAT WOMAN CUSTOMER

at a table in restaurant - past man with her in R f.g.
opposite side of the table. She is eating soup. Kurtz is
standing CR of her - leaning over her serenading with a violin.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

Barman puts drinks on the counter in front of them in f.g.
from o.s. R .

                         BARMAN (O.S.)
            Zwei whiskeys.

                         MARTINS
            How much?

                         BARMAN (O.S.)
            Zwanzig schillings.

                         ANNA
            They don't take army money here.

Anna starts rummaging in her handbag for money - in the
process some of the contents tumble out on to the counter
including a photograph. Martins picks it up.

                         MARTINS
            Harry?

                         ANNA
            Yes. He moved his head, but the
            rest is good, isn't it?

She takes back the photo and puts it in her bag again.

CLOSEUP - WOMAN CUSTOMER

at the table, with Kurtz bending down close CR of her -
smiling and playing the violin. He suddenly reacts to
sighting Martins off CR. He finishes playing and straightens
up CAMERA PANNING UP LR with him and losing the woman
customer - and we HOLD HIM IN CLOSEUP looking off CR still.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

seated at table reading a paper, and smoking a cigar.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

nods off R at Popescu, then narrowing look off closer to
camera for Martins moves forward to exit CR.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

looks off wider CR for Martins paper still in hand.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

CR of her. Kurtz moves downstage to stand between them full
face.

                         KURTZ
            Good evening, Miss Schmidt.

Martins puts down his glass.

                         ANNA
            Good evening.
                         KURTZ
            So, you have found out my little
            secret. A man must live.
                   (to Martins)
            How goes the investigation? Have
            you proved to the police they are
            wrong?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            Not yet.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            But you will.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in R f.g.

                         KURTZ
            Our friend Dr. Winkel said you had
            called. Wasn't he helpful?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurtz in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Well, he was - er - limited.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in R f.g.

                         KURTZ
            Mr. Popescu is here tonight.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            The Roumanian?

                         KURTZ
            Yes. The man who helped carry him.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurtz in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I thought he left Vienna?

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in R f.g.

                         KURTZ
            He is back now.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Kurtz in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I'd like to meet all of Harry's
            friends.

CLOSEUP - KURTZ

past Martins in R f.g. He exits CR.

                         KURTZ
            I'll bring him to you.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Haven't you done enough for tonight?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

CAMERA PANNING DOWN RL to bring in Anna as he leans down on
bar CR of her full face.

                         MARTINS
            The porter said three men carried
            the body - and two of them are here.

LONG SHOT

from Martins' eye line some members of the International
Patrol appear in the doorway to the bar.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

CR leaving on the bar. Behind them in the reflection of the
wall mirror Martins watches the International Patrol as they
enter bar. An American M.P. followed by a Russian enter from
CL crossing screen behind Anna and Martin LR. As they go
Martins turns back to the bar.

                         MARTINS
            Who are you looking for now?

                         ANNA
            Sssh. Don't. Don't, please.

                         MARTINS
            Silly looking bunch.

MED. LONG SHOT - KURTZ

followed by Popescu making their way through the tables and
some members of the patrol CAMERA TRACKING BACK with them
and PANNING RL revealing Anna and Martins at the bar in f.g.
They stop facing them - Kurtz CL.

Kurtz introduces Popescu.

                         KURTZ
            Mr. Popescu - Mr. Martins.

                         MARTINS
            How do you do.

                         POPESCU
            Any friend of Harry's is a friend
            of mine.

                         KURTZ
            I'll leave you together.

Kurtz exits CR.

                         POPESCU
            Good evening, Miss Schmidt. You
            remember me?

                         ANNA
            Of course.

                         POPESCU
            I helped Harry fix her papers, Mr.
            Martins...

                         MARTINS
            Oh, you did.

                         POPESCU
            Not the sort of thing I should
            confess to a total stranger, but
            you have to break the rules
            sometimes. Humanity's duty.

He puts a cigarette in his mouth from a packet in his hand
and offers it to Anna.

                         POPESCU
            Cigarette, Miss Schmidt?

                         ANNA
            Thank you.

                         POPESCU
            Keep the packet.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Popescu in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I understand you were with...

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

past Martins in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Harry...

                         POPESCU
            Two double whiskeys. Was wunschen sie?

He looks off CL for Anna.

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            Nichts danke. Kein.

                         POPESCU
            Entschuldigen sie. It was a
            terrible thing.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

holding glass looking down thoughtfully.

                         POPESCU (O.S.)
            I was just crossing the road to go
            to Harry.

MED. SHOT - POPESCU AND MARTINS

crossing bar into restaurant. CAMERA PANNING AND TRACKING LR
with them and revealing the almost empty tables beyond. They
move upstage backs to camera, and stop in the center of the
room.

                         POPESCU
            He and the Baron were on the
            sidewalk. If I hadn't started to
            cross the road it wouldn't have
            happened. I can't help blaming
            myself and wishing things had been
            different. Anyway he saw me, and
            stepped off the sidewalk to meet
            me, and the truck...

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

past Martins in R f.g. Martins walks forward and stands CR
of him in L profile.

                         POPESCU
            It was terrible, Mr. Martins -
            terrible. I have never seen a man
            killed before.

He lights a cigarette.

                         MARTINS
            I thought there was something funny
            about the whole thing.

                         POPESCU
            Funny?

                         MARTINS
            Something wrong.

                         POPESCU
            Of course there was. Some ice for
            Mr. Martins.

A tray with two drinks comes into picture from CL and they
each take one.

                         MARTINS
            You think so, too?

Martins walks round Popescu RL.

                         POPESCU
            It was so terrible for a man like
            Harry to be killed in an ordinary
            street accident.

Martins is now CL of him in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            That's all you meant?

                         POPESCU
            What else?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Popescu in R f.g. Music stops.

                         MARTINS
            Who was the third man?

CLOSEUP - GLASS

to his lips, lowers it smiling - past Martins in L f.g.

                         POPESCU
            I oughtn't to drink it. It makes me
            acid. What man would you be
            referring to, Mr. Martins?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Popescu in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I was told that a third man helped
            you and Kurtz to carry the body.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

past Martins in L f.g.

                         POPESCU
            I don't know how you could have
            heard that here. The finding of the
            body was in the police report.
            There was just the two of us - me
            and the Baron. Who could have told
            you a story like that?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Popescu in R f.g. He raises glass to drink.

                         MARTINS
            The Porter at Harry's place - he
            was cleaning the window at the time.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

past Martins drinking from his glass in L f.g.

                         POPESCU
            And saw the accident.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

past Popescu in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            No, no. He didn't see the accident -
            but he saw three men carrying the
            body.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

past Martins in L f.g.

                         POPESCU
            Wasn't he at the police inquiry?

                         MARTINS
            He didn't want to get involved.

                         POPESCU
            Will we never teach these Austrians
            to be good citizens. It was his
            duty to give the evidence.

Popescu moves away LR upstage back to camera, CAMERA PANNING
with him, and losing Martins. He sits down in a chair.

                         POPESCU
            Even so - he remembered wrong.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

moves down stage to CL of Popescu seated in L profile R f.g.
at a table smoking. CAMERA PANS LR with Martins as he
crosses in front of Popescu.

                         POPESCU
            What else did he tell you?

                         MARTINS
            That Harry was dead before you got
            him to that statue.

Martins sits down CAMERA PANNING DOWN SLIGHTLY with him as
he sits CR of Popescu and we SHOOT PAST him in R f.g., to
the former.

                         MARTINS
            He probably knows a lot more than
            that. Somebody's lying.

                         POPESCU
                   (he drinks)
            Not necessarily.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         MARTINS
            The police say he was mixed up in
            some racket.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins.

                         POPESCU
            Oh, that's quite impossible. He had
            a great sense of duty.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL.

                         MARTINS
            Your friend Kurtz, seems to think
            it was possible.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR.

                         POPESCU
            I understand how an Anglo-Saxon
            feels. The Baron hasn't travelled,
            you know.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL. He looks away for a moment.

                         MARTINS
            He seems to have been around a bit.
            Do you know a man called - er -
            Harbin?

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins.

                         POPESCU
            No.

                         MARTINS
            Joseph Harbin.

                         POPESCU
            Joseph Harbin? No...no.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CL - he looks off CR for Anna.

                         POPESCU
            That's a nice girl that, but she
            ought to go careful in Vienna.
            Everybody ought to go careful in a
            city like this.

Music starts.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

seated in chair talking into phone. He replaces the receiver.

                         POPESCU
            You will meet us at the bridge. Good.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ

coming out of a door of a house into the street.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - STREET

Dr. Winkel comes out of a passage in a building CR wheeling
a bicycle RL. CAMERA PANS SLIGHTLY with him.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

comes out of door into street.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - SUSPENSION BRIDGE

Center of this in far b.g. are discovered Winkel, Kurtz and
Popescu in a group. They start to move away off upstage.

LONG SHOT - HIGH ANGLE

down onto the bridge, the three men walking away upstage RL.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

outside Harry's apartment building. He starts to cross the
road RL.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

looking off CL for Martins.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

in the middle of the road. He turns away to walk upstage but
is arrested by a call and reacts to it.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            Hullo!

MED. LONG SHOT - PORTER

at the upstairs window from Martins' eye line. He is looking
down off L for Martins.

                         PORTER
            Hey - is it so very important for you?

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing in the middle of the road looking up off CR for the
Porter.

                         MARTINS
            Yes, it is.

                         PORTER (O.S.)
            I am not a bad man.

MED. SHOT - PORTER

at the open window looking down past CL.

                         PORTER
            I would like to tell you something.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing in the deserted street looking up CR for the Porter
off.

                         MARTINS
            Tell me, how did a car...

MED. SHOT - PORTER

at window, looking down off L for Martins.

                         PORTER
            Come tonight. My wife goes out...

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

in the street looking up off R for the Porter.

                         MARTINS
            All right, I'll come back, but...

MED. SHOT - PORTER

at window - he holds his finger to his lips - then goes back
into the room.

                         PORTER
            Ssh! Tonight.

CLOSE SHOT - PORTER

as he closes the windows and turns back into the room full
face. He suddenly looks fearfully off past CR and CAMERA
TRACKS INTO CLOSEUP - he is transfixed. Music crescendo.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on the bed in her room. There is a knock at the door.

                         ANNA
            Wer ist da?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

enters through door from CR into Anna's room. He looks off
CL for her.

                         MARTINS
            That mean come in?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on bed looking ott CR for Martins. She gets up out of
picture.

                         ANNA
            Oh, yes, yes. Come in.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

in CR f.g., Anna picks up a bundle of clothes and crosses in
front of him LR CAMERA PANNING with her. She puts things in
a chest of drawers.

                         MARTINS
            The Porter is going to talk to us
            tonight.

                         ANNA
            Need we go through it all again?

Martins CL of her who has been standing behind a pile of
boxes picks up a script on the top of them and looks at it.

                         MARTINS
            Might as well I suppose. Are you busy?

                         ANNA
            Just another part I've got to learn.

CAMERA PANS RL with Anna as she moves to CR of Martins.

                         MARTINS
            Can I hear you?

                         ANNA
            In German?

                         MARTINS
            I can try. Is it comedy, or tragedy?

                         ANNA
            Comedy. I don't play tragedy.

He puts down his coat.

                         MARTINS
            Do I...

                         ANNA
            Well you read this.

She moves upstage towards the window. Martins moves forward
to lean in CLOSE SHOT on boxes looking at the script.

                         MARTINS
            Gestern bein heurigen...

                         ANNA
            What's that?

                         MARTINS
            "Ein hurigan" - I guess.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

Anna enters from CL and stands beside him and we HOLD THEM
BOTH IN CLOSE SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            H-E-Z-T...

                         ANNA
            Oh, let me see. No, no that's not
            the cue. It means she has to sit down.

She exits CL and CAMERA PANS LR slightly to center on Martins.

                         MARTINS
            Well, Frau Housman...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

at end of bed standing in L profile. She sits down on the
end of the bed CAMERA CENTERING HER.

                         ANNA
            No` no. It's no good.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna - script still in hand.

                         MARTINS
            Bad day?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on bed R profile favoring camera. She is looking off
CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            It is always bad about this time.
            He used to look in around six; I've
            been frightened at being alone
            without friends and money. But I've
            never known anything like this.
            Please talk.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna.

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            Tell me about him.

                         MARTINS
            Tell you what?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on bed, R profile favoring camera.

                         ANNA
            Oh, anything - just talk. When did
            you see him last?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

lowering script - not looking at her.

                         ANNA
            When...what did you do?

                         MARTINS
            Oh, we didn't make much sense.
            Drank too much. Once he tried...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on end of bed looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS
            ...to steal my girl.

                         ANNA
            Where is she?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

throws down script. CAMERA PANS RL with him as he moves
upstage, revealing Anna seated on end of bed back to camera,
and the window in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, that was many years ago.

                         ANNA
            Tell me more.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, it's very difficult. You know
            Harry...we didn't do...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at the window standing full face - not looking at Anna off.

                         MARTINS
            ...anything very amusing. He just
            made everything seem like such -
            er - fun.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on bed looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Was he clever when he was a boy?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

standing full face CR of the window.

                         MARTINS
            I suppose so - he could fix anything.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            What sort of things?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

lights a match.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, little things. How to put your
            temperature up before an exam...the
            best cribs. How to avoid this and
            that.

He lights his cigarette.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking up off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            He fixed my papers for me. He heard
            that the Russians were repatriating
            people like me who came from
            Czechoslovakia. He knew the right
            person straight away, for forging
            stamps.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at the window. He looks off R for Anna - then off left out
of the window. Blows out match.

                         MARTINS
            Yes.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

moves closer to the window - looks at window box.

                         MARTINS
            When he was fourteen, he taught me
            the three card trick. That's
            growing up fast.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            He never grew up. The world grew up
            round him that's all.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

standing by the window - cigarette in hand looking off CR
for Anna back to window.

                         ANNA
            ...and buried him.

                         MARTINS
            Anna.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looks up off CR for Martins.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            You'll fall in love again.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins - she gets up CAMERA PANNING UP
with her and turns away back to camera.

                         ANNA
            Can't you see I don't want to. I
            don't ever want to.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

at window looking off R for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Come on out and have a drink.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Why did you say that?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

picks up coat. Anna moves to his side in the corner of the
room and CAMERA TRACKS IN AND HOLDS THEM IN CLOSE SHOT.
Martins puts down her coat instead of helping her on with it.

                         MARTINS
            Seemed like a good idea.

                         ANNA
            It's just what he used to say.

                         MARTINS
            Well, I didn't learn that from him.

                         ANNA
            If we have to see the Porter we'd
            better go.

                         MARTINS
            What's the hurry? Can't we talk
            quietly for a couple of minutes?

                         ANNA
            I thought you wanted...

                         MARTINS
            A moment ago you said you didn't
            want to see the Porter.

                         ANNA
            We're both in it, Harry.

                         MARTINS
            Holly.

                         ANNA
            I'm so sorry.

                         MARTINS
            It's all right.

He exits CR.

                                            CUT TO:

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CL picking up coat and hat.

                         MARTINS
            You might get the name right.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

at door looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Do you know - you ought to find
            yourself a girl.

She opens the door and Martins enters from CR. Music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

CL walking down side of wet dark street toward camera which
is TRACKING BACK WITH THEM. They stop in f.g. in CLOSE SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            His English is very bad. We'll let
            him talk German. You'll just be
            good enough to trans...

Anna looks off RL.

                         ANNA
            Look!

LONG SHOT - GROUP OF PEOPLE

clustered round the doorway of the entrance to Harry's
apartment. An ambulance is parked outside its doors open
toward camera.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            That's Harry's place, isn't it?

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            Yes.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

She backs away and CAMERA TRACKS IN A LITTLE as he follows her.

                         ANNA
            Let's go away.

                         MARTINS
            What's the matter?

                         ANNA
            Let's not get into any more trouble.

                         MARTINS
            Wait here.

He moves to exit CL. Sound of airplane engine.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CR f.g. and moves upstage toward group outside
the apartment.

MED. SHOT - GROUP OF PEOPLE

gathered outside the doorway.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

outside CR side of door and Martins in L profile CR of him.

                         MARTINS
            What's the matter - er - What is loos?

                         MAN
            De Porter ist um gebracht worden.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL

holding his father's hand, from Martins' eye line down to him.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            I don't understand.

                         MAN
            The Porter.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

past Martins in R f.g.

                         MAN
            Dead.

CLOSE SHOT - ANOTHER MAN

past Martins in R profile in L f.g.

                         MAN
            Kaput - he's murdered. The Porter
            is - odraht - kaput -

Makes a slitting movement with his hand across his throat.

CLOSEUP - HANSEL

looking up off CL for his father.

                         HANSEL
            Papa...papa...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CL and father of Hansel, who looks down CR for him off.

                         FATHER
            Was willst den Hansel?

CLOSEUP - HANSEL

pointing off CR.

                         HANSEL
            Papa der war's.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND HANSEL'S FATHER

looking down off R for Hansel. Martins turns his head to
look off CL toward the door. Hansel's Father points at
Martins still looking off R.

                         FATHER
            Was den herr da?

CLOSEUP - HANSEL

holding ball, looking up off CL for his father.

                         HANSEL
            Ja, papa. Ich hab's doch g'sehen!

CLOSEUP - MAN

in the street looking off CR for the boy.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Papa der ist der murder.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking back over his shoulder for Anna. Hansel's father CR
of him who looks at him.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

standing close to the wall of the building CL of her on the
pavement looking off CL.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Murder! Murder!

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL with Hansel's father CR of him. The latter
taps him on the shoulder.

                         FATHER
            Sagen sie haben sie einen streit
            gehabt mit dem portier.

He exits CL.

                         MARTINS
            I don't understand.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL

looking up off CR.

                         HANSEL
            Hey, vo gest due mir?

CLOSE THREE SHOT

a woman and man either side of Hansel's father looking off CL.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL

moving among the legs of the spectators outside the house,
making his way to camera. He stops in f.g. tugging at the
sleeve of Martins' coat which is in R of picture and looking
up off R for him.

                         HANSEL
            Ta papa der war's.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down off L for Hansel.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Der war's.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL'S FATHER

between the man and woman in the crowd. They are looking off
CR.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Ja papa, der ist der murder.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

and Martins at her CR side looking off CL towards the boy off.

                         ANNA
            What is it?

MED. SHOT - STRETCHER BEARERS

bringing the stretcher out of the house RL through the
people gathered round the door.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            The Porter has been murdered.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

he is looking off CL reacting to the body being carried out.
Anna is looking off CR listening.

                         FATHER (O.S.)
            Warms er ist der mit...

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL'S FATHER

between the woman CL and the man CR.

                         FATHER
            Dem portier die rauferei gehabt hat.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

with Martins CR of her. She is looking off CR listening to
Hansel's father. She leans back to whisper to Martins.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Warscheinlich ist der murder.

                         ANNA
            They think you did it.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Morder!

MED. SHOT - GROUP OF MEN

among the spectators looking off CR for Martins.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Morder!

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

with Martins CR of her.

CLOSE SHOT - HANSEL

looking up off CL for his father. He makes a gesture of
cutting his throat with his hand.

                         HANSEL
            So gemascht odraht.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

They start to turn away. Music starts.

                         HANSEL (O.S.)
            Der - der - der.

CLOSEUP - THE MAN

Martins first addressed in the crowd - from low angle.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in the lead, with Martins making their way through the
people Anna exits CR. Martins follows her.

MED. SHOT - HANSEL

from his height, making his way through the people. He runs
out of picture CR.

                         HANSEL
            Papa.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

with Martins CL making their way at a run down stage - away
from Harry's apartment. Hansel is seen running after them
b.g. CL.

                         HANSEL
            Papa der war's.

MED. SHOT - SPECTATORS

with Hansel's father among them looking off CR.

                         FATHER
            Hullo. Warten sie bissl.

He moves to exit CR.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

with Martins walking upstage backs to camera they turn and
look back.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MAN

moving downstage LR.

                         MAN
            Sie moment mal.

LONG SHOT - ANNA AND MARTINS

moving upstage along the pavement. Hansel enters from CL
running upstage after them. Anna and Martins turn corner
going out of picture CL. Hansel stops and turns round to
look back for his father.

                         HANSEL
            Papa!

MED. SHOT - HANSEL

standing full face at the street corner looking back for his
father.

                         HANSEL
            Papa!

MED. SHOT - GROUP OF SPECTATORS

with Hansel's father.

                         FATHER
            Stock stehen hier.

He exits CR.

LONG SHOT - HANSEL

turns away and runs up the street again exiting round corner
CL after Martins and Anna.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS AND ANNA

running down stone steps with church in b.g.

LONG SHOT - SPECTATORS

running upstage backs to camera toward corner after Hansel,
off.

LONG SHOT - SPECTATORS

coming round corner at a run toward camera.

LONG SHOT - STONE STEPS

with church in b.g. Hansel running down them leading the
crowd of spectators.

LONG SHOT - OUTSIDE THEATRE

Martins CL and Anna walking along the street LR. She is
stopped by Martins as she is about to pass the cinema.

                         MARTINS
            In here.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CL to box office followed by Anna.

                         ANNA
            That money is no good. Zwei bitte.

She gives him some money and he buys the tickets.

LONG SHOT - HANSEL

comes round corner CR with spectators moving downstage.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

at the box office. Martins pulls her out of picture CR to go
into cinema.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

enters from CL to row of seats. Martins also enters and sits
in a seat just behind her. There is sound of distorted sound
track from German film being shown. Not clearly audible.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in L profile favoring camera. Martins seated in the row
behind her, leans forward over her R shoulder to whisper to
her.

                         MARTINS
            Sneak out the other way, and go
            back to your theatre. I'd better
            not see you again.

                         ANNA
            What are you going to do?

                         MARTINS
            I wish I knew.

                         ANNA
            Be sensible - tell Major Calloway.

She gets up and exits CR. Martins looks after her.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

in the lobby of Sacher's hotel. He is at the reception
desk - the clerk tipping L edge of frame.

                         DRIVER
            Sagen sie furmal hab dieser Mr.
            Martins garnichts unter lassen
            wegen eine taxi.

                         CLERK
            Nein garnichts.

LONG SHOT - PARKED TAXI

outside Sacher's Hotel in R of picture. Martins walking
downstage to it from hotel.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

comes into picture from CL. Wheel of taxi and flag reading
"FREI" in f.g. He looks for the driver.

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

leaves the reception desk: CAMERA PANS with him LR as he
walks back to camera upstage to door to street. As he does
so Martins comes into picture through the door passing the
driver CL of him and looking off L for the desk, exits to it.
The taxi driver looks after him.

                         MARTINS
            Get me Major Callaghan on the phone.

                         CLERK (O.S.)
            Oh, Mr. Martins...

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

moving in to reception desk from CR standing in front of it
facing the receptionist, in R profile.

                         CLERK
            ...excuse me.

                         MARTINS
            Please hurry up - just get him on
            the telephone.

                         CLERK
            Do you know his number?

                         MARTINS
            No, I don't know...

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

looking off CL for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...his number.

                         CLERK (O.S.)
            I'll look it up for you.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Well, look, is there a car here I
            can use?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

in R profile facing the receptionist across the desk. The
latter points off CR.

                         CLERK
            Of course - there's one waiting for
            you.

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

beckoning to Martins off CL.

                         DRIVER
            Bitte schoen mein herr. Bitte schoen.

He moves upstage toward the door in b.g.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

leaves the reception desk and walks away exiting CR.

                         MARTINS
            Never mind about the number.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CL f.g. as taxi driver is going through the
swing doors past the porter in the doorway. Martins follows
him out.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

gets into front seat of taxi in f.g., with windscreen and
wheel. Martins crosses b.g. LR to back of car.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

gets into the back of the taxi and sits into position in L
profile looking off CL through barred partition to driver's
seat.

                         MARTINS
            Take me to headquarters.

CLOSE SHOT - DRIVER

starts up taxi and it drives away RL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

falls back with a jerk as taxi suddenly starts.

LONG SHOT - TAXI

drives away upstage - a couple of porters outside Sacher's.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

recovering his balance leans forward CL to the driver's
window and bangs on it.

CLOSE SHOT - DRIVER

in L of picture Martins seen through the barred partition,
in the back of the car behind him.

                         MARTINS
            Hold on! Hold on! I haven't even
            told you where to take me yet.

                         DRIVER
            Bleiben sie doch ruhig.

MED. LONG SHOT - TAXI

driving through the deserted streets RL. It exits CL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in L profile banging on the barred partition.

                         MARTINS
            Driver! Driver!

LONG SHOT - TAXI

driving downstage RL. Peasant woman crossing street in f.g.
LR. It exits CL at speed.

CLOSE SHOT - DRIVER

in L of picture full face - Martins seen behind him CR.

                         MARTINS
            Hey! Stop!

He falls back into the back of the taxi.

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI

from low angle driving through the streets at a high speed.
It narrowly misses a woman pedestrian in the quiet street
and swerves on off out of picture CL.

CLOSE SHOT - DRIVER

full face in L of picture with Martins behind him CR looking
through partition - leaning forward from back seat - in
order to do so.

                         MARTINS
            Have you got orders to kill me?
            Hey, stop.

LONG SHOT - TAXI

racing through streets. Man in CR f.g. at bin - CAMERA PANS
RL with taxi losing him. Taxi turns R and exits CL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in back of taxi he looks back over his L shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

eating a crust of bread and looking off CL after the taxi.

LONG SHOT - TAXI

driving away down stage at a high speed to camera. CAMERA
PANS RL as it swerves round corner turning to its R and then
moves upstage away from camera.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in back of taxi looking back over his L shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

looking over fanlight above door, gaze travelling RL as he
reacts to watching the taxi race by.

LONG SHOT

from HIGH ANGLE of taxi driving along deserted street in the
center of the tram lines - narrowly missing the only
pedestrian.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in L profile in the back of the taxi. He looks back over his
L shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT - TWO MEN

in street looking off CL after the taxi racing by.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in back of taxi in L profile, he bangs on the partition to
the driver.

LONG SHOT - TAXI

driving into large gateway LR.

LONG SHOT - TAXI

comes through archway and draws up in R f.g.

MED. SHOT - DRIVER

gets out of taxi. He opens door in CR f.g. into a building.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

opens door of taxi and looks out CR still sitting in the taxi.

CLOSE SHOT - TAXI DRIVER

in doorway looking off CL for Martins. He points into
doorway, off.

                         DRIVER
            Bitte schoen, gehen sie herein mein
            herr...
MED. SHOT - MARTINS

gets out of taxi LR and moves forward into CLOSE SHOT in R
profile - then swings round to push back the door of the
taxi, which open bars his way out and moves to run upstage,
then reacts to hearing door open and a pool of light is
thrown on him. He backs against the side of the taxi in R
profile looking off CR.

LONG SHOT

past a man opening the door to Crabbin walking forward to
door - behind him seen a large hall, with men and women
seated on benches inside seated backs to camera, but all
turned round to look to camera toward the door. A table just
inside the door has large notice propped against it which
reads in English and German: WELCOME TO THE BRITISH CULTURAL
CENTER. ADMISSION FREE.

Crabbin walks forward into CLOSE SHOT smiling and looking
off L for Martins.

                         CRABBIN
            Oh Mr. Martins. What a relief to
            see you. I was beginning to think
            something had happened to you. Come
            along...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking incredulously off past CR into the hall and at Crabbin.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            Mr. Martins, everything is ready
            for you...

MED. LONG SHOT - AUDIENCE

turning round from platform to face camera and look off for
Martins. They applaud.

                         CRABBIN
            I was frantic in case...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Crabbin.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            you hadn't got my message at the
            hotel. The porters out here are so
            unreliable if you know what I mean.
MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

Martins enters from L f.g. to him and he leads him upstage
to the hall.

                         CRABBIN
            We're all set for a wonderful evening.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

close to camera in R profile being led by the arm by Crabbin
at his L side LR toward the platform-audience seen in b.g.
CAMERA PANS LR with them. A member of the audience is
revealed standing in the aisle clapping as they pass.

                         CRABBIN
            You'll find the audience most
            appreciative. Oh let me take your
            coat...I've got it.

They stop in the aisle and Crabbin starts to help him off
with his coat. He takes it with his hat and continues to
lead the way to the platform CAMERA PANNING WITH THEM -
Martins following.

                         CRABBIN
            Come along now, Mr. M. follow me.

LONG SHOT

the platform the backs of heads of the front rows of
audience in f.g. Crabbin's girl friend is discovered
standing on the CL side of the platform. Crabbin hurries
into picture onto the platform from CR followed by Martins.
There is applause.

                         CRABBIN
            Here we are, ladies and gentlemen.
            All's well that ends well. Would
            you look after that for me?

Hands Martins' hat and coat to the girl who takes them.

                         CRABBIN
            Would you like to sit there, Mr.
            Martins?
                   (Martins sits)
            That's right.

Crabbin indicates a seat CR of him as he stands at speakers'
table in center of platform. Martins sits. Crabbin stands
looking off CL for the audience.

                         CRABBIN
            Ladies and gentlemen, I have much
            pleasure in introducing Mr. Holly
            Martins, from the other side.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

sits down and Martins stands to speak. Crabbin's girl friend
seen in L of picture.

                         MARTINS
            Well...

He looks helplessly out CL.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

standing talking into phone - switchboard and girl operator
CL of him.

                         POPESCU
            Bring the car...and anyone else
            who'd like to come. Don't be too
            long, hmm.

He replaces receiver, takes up hat and exits CL..

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

standing on the platform with Crabbin seated CL of him. He
is looking out off R for a member of the audience.

                         MARTINS
            Well, yes. I suppose that is what I
            meant to say.

                         CRABBIN
            Of course, of course, of course.

MED. SHOT - THE AUDIENCE

Man at back CR stands up and looks off CR for Martins on the
platform.

                         MAN
            Do you believe, Mr. Martins, in the
            stream of consciousness?

CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

looking up off CR for Martins.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL for man at the back of the hall.

                         MARTINS
            Stream of consciousness...

CLOSEUP - CRABBIN

looks up CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Well - well.

LONG SHOT

from the back of the hall. Martins standing on the platform,
Crabbin seated CL of him - girl CL on platform. One or two
members of the audience get up to leave.

                         MAN
            What author has chiefly influenced
            you?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

standing in R of picture with Crabbin seated CL, of him -
his girl friend wide CL; Martins is looking off CL into the
audience.

                         MARTINS
            Grey.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Grey?

CLOSE SHOT - WOMAN

seated in audience looking off R for Martins. Another woman
CR of her gets up and leaves.

                         WOMAN
            What grey?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

with Crabbin seated CL of him. He is looking off CL.

                         MARTINS
            Zane Grey.

                         CRABBIN
            Oh, that is Mr. Martins' little
            joke, of course...

LONG SHOT - POPESCU

coming through door into hall, another man enters from CR
f.g., and exits through door in b.g., Popescu walks forward
taking off his hat.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            We all know perfectly well that
            Zane Grey wrote what we call
            Westerns - cowboys...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL reacting to sighting Popescu.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            ...and bandits.

A man in the audience off calls another question.

                         MAN
            Mr. James...

MED. SHOT - POPESCU

stops in f.g. leaning on the rail of the stove in f.g., at
the back of the hall. Looking off CL for Martins. Some of
the audience exiting through doors in b.g.

                         MAN (O.S.)
            ...Joyce, now...where would you put
            him?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

with Martins standing CR of him looking off CL.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, would you mind repeating that
            question?

CLOSEUP - MAN

in audience looking up off CR for Martins - he is seated.

                         MAN
            I said where would you put Mr.
            James Joyce?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CRABBIN

seated CL and Martins standing CR of him looking off CL for
Popescu -

                         MAN (O.S.)
            In what category?

                         POPESCU
            Can I ask...

He reacts to hearing him speak.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins on the platform.

                         POPESCU
            ...is Mr. Martins engaged on a new
            book?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         MARTINS
            Yes, it is called the...

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

from low angle looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Third Man.

                         POPESCU
            A novel, Mr. Martins?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         MARTINS
            It's a murder story. I've just
            started it.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...based on fact.

LONG SHOT

of the rapidly emptying hall. The three still on the
platform with Martins standing.

                         CRABBIN
            Why, it's Mr. Popescu. Very great
            pleasure to see you here, Mr.
            Popescu. As you know, ladies and
            gentlemen, Mr. Popescu is a very
            great supporter of one of our
            medical...

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins.

                         CRABBIN (O.S.)
            ...charities.

                         POPESCU
            Are you a slow writer...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

with Crabbin CL of him - head between his hands. Martins
looking off CL for Popescu.

                         POPESCU (O.S.)
            Mr. Martins...

                         MARTINS
            Not when I get interested.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

leaning on the stove rail looking off CR for Martins.

                         POPESCU
            I see you are doing something
            pretty dangerous...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         POPESCU (O.S.)
            ...this time.

                         MARTINS
            Yes.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins.

                         POPESCU
            Mixing fact and fiction.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

standing CR of Crabbin who has head in hands. The former is
looking off CR.

                         MARTINS
            Should I make it all fact?

                         POPESCU (O.S.)
            Why no, Mr. Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

looking off CR.

                         POPESCU
            I'd say stick to fiction. Straight
            fiction.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         MARTINS
            I'm too far along with the book, Mr.
            Popescu.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR.

                         POPESCU
            Haven't you ever scrapped a book...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Popescu.

                         POPESCU (O.S.)
            ...Mr. Martins?

                         MARTINS
            Never.

CLOSEUP - POPESCU

looking off CR for Martins. He turns away.

                         POPESCU
            Pity.

LONG SHOT

the hall which is now nearly empty, the last two or three
members of the audience are getting up to leave. The three
men still on the platform, with Martins standing CR.

                         CRABBIN
            Ladies and gentlemen, if there are
            no more questions for Mr. Martins,
            I think I can call the meeting
            officially closed.

LONG SHOT

the lobby of the hall. Two men in hats and raincoats come in
to Popescu. Some members of the audience leaving through
doors in b.g. Music starts.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

hat and coat over his arm moves downstage CAMERA PANS RL
with him as he comes into lobby.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

with the two men CL of him.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

looking off L reacts to seeing the two men with Popescu -
then suddenly turns to his R and darts to doorway in b.g. L
through which can be seen iron spiral staircase, he starts
up it at a run.

CLOSE SHOT - POPESCU

with the two men CL of him, they are looking off CR and
reacting to Martins' action. Popescu gestures to the men to
go after him.

                         POPESCU
            Loos.

MED. SHOT

up to the bannisters of the spiral staircase curving round
and upwards. Martins moving RL across screen up them.

LONG SHOT

through bannister rails the two men moving through the
deserted hall to doorway leading to spiral stairs.

LONG SHOT

up the bannisters of the spiral staircase, Martins
disappearing on a landing at the top CL.

LONG SHOT

from top of stairs down to the doorway leading from the hall
to the spiral stairs. The two men are hurrying up the stairs
LR.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

through bannister rails in f.g. up to Martins approaching a
door on landing CR.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

entering room CAMERA TRACKS IN to CLOSE SHOT. Parrot is
heard squawking...

Martins turns his head and looks off CR reacting to the parrot.

INT. THE ROOM - LONG SHOT

The room is in darkness - from Martins' eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at door looking off CR.

LONG SHOT

room from Martins' eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at door - he exits CR.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CL moving across the room downstage to light
hanging down in f.g. He steps forward into CLOSE SHOT and
reaches up and puts it on, looking off CR.

LONG SHOT

the lighted room from Martins' eye line. Parrot discovered
seated on a perch CR of the window among some artist's
requisites.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

he puts on hat and moves to exit.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

enters from CL hat on, and putting on coat. He moves upstage
toward window CL of parrot.

CLOSE SHOT - PARROT

on his perch pecks at Martins' hand as he opens window.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at window sucks his pecked finger - then starts to climb out
of the window.

LONG SHOT

derelict building street lamp in R of picture. Martins jumps
down from a doorway high up - onto some rubble.

MED. SHOT

closed door in the room - Popescu's two men enter through it
then exit CR.

LONG SHOT

crumbling wall over a heap of rubble. Martins entering from
CR scrambles down it RL.

LONG SHOT

through tunnel in f.g. to heap of rubble - Popescu's two men
scramble down the slope toward camera.

LONG SHOT

through tunnel. Martins making his way upstage at a run -
over some rubble - back to camera.

LONG SHOT

through arches - Martins enters from CL running upstage back
to camera.

LONG SHOT

flight of steps leading up toward church in b.g. Martins
runs into picture from CL looking back over his shoulder
CL - and starts up the steps.

LONG SHOT

one of the two men making his way across some rubble
downstage toward camera at a run. Train whistle is heard.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

at the top of the steps outside the church looks back - then
runs out CR.

VERY LONG SHOT

of the road leading to the church and steps. The two men
enter at a run from CL f.g. and start upstage toward steps.

MED. LONG SHOT

to a mound of rubble with an abandoned derelict car in f.g. -
building in b.g. Martins runs down from the top of the heap
of rubble and dives down into the car.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

falls into position into derelict car LR looking off R.

LONG SHOT

the two men run on to heap of rubble looking off CL.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in back of derelict car looking off CR for the two men.

LONG SHOT

over the car in f.g. to the two men standing on the summit
of the heap of rubble. They exit CL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in back of car, moves RL to get out of it.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

getting out of back of derelict car RL.

LONG SHOT - OF THE STREETS

Martins enters from L f.g. running upstage back to camera.

LONG SHOT - COBBLED STREET

Martins running downstage toward camera, looking back over
his shoulder as he does so. He slows down to a walk and
exits CL.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated on window sill CAMERA PANS LR with him as he gets up
and walks round desk revealing Paine in L f.g. and losing
him again as Calloway passes him and revealing Martins
leaning against the ledge of the stove in b.g. Music stops.

                         CALLOWAY
            I told you to go away, Martins.
            This isn't Santa Fe...I'm not a
            Sheriff, and you aren't a cowboy.
            You have been blundering around
            with the worst bunoh of racketeers
            in Vienna...your precious Harry's
            friends, and now you're wanted for
            murder.

Calloway is passing in front of Martins LR as he walks round
room and back toward desk again. CAMERA PANNING WITH HIM. .

                         MARTINS
            Put in drunk and disorderly, too.

Calloway catches sight of Martins hurt finger, and looks
back now stopping CR of him.

                         CALLOWAY
            I have. What's the matter with your
            hand?

CAMERA PANS RL as Calloway crosses baok in front of Martins.

                         MARTINS
            A parrot bit me.

                         CALLOWAY
            Oh, stop behaving like a fool,
            Martins.

                         MARTINS
            I'm only a little fool - I'm an
            amateur at it - you're a
            professional. You've been shaking
            your cap and bells all over town.

CAMERA PANS LR with Calloway as he crosses in front of
Martins again losing the latter out of picture L and he goes
to his desk - we HOLD HIM IN CLOSE SHOT.

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine, get me the Harry Lime file
            and Mr. Martins a large whiskey.

Paine crosses f.g. RL exiting.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated CR of stove looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            I don't need your drinks, Calloway.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

standing behind his desk looking off L for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            You will.

He sits in the chair behind the desk, CAMERA PANNING DOWN
with him and he swivels round on his chair to face away from
Martins, picking up his stick from the desk in front of him.

                         CALLOWAY
            I don't want another murder in this
            case, and you were born to be
            murdered. So you're going to hear
            the facts.

MED. LONG SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway. He walks forward.

                         MARTINS
            You haven't told me a single one yet.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

seated behind his desk looking off L for Martins. He reaches
across and tips up desk lampshade.

                         CALLOWAY
            Have you ever heard of penicillin?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated on arm of chair looking off CR for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Well?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            In Vienna...

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

seated at desk looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...there hasn't been enough
            penicillin to go round. So a nice
            trade started here... Stealing
            penicillin from the Military
            hospitals - diluting it to make it
            go further and selling it to
            patients...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Do you see what that means?

                         MARTINS
            Are you too busy chasing a few
            tubes of penicillin to investigate
            a murder?

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

seated looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            These were murders. Men with
            gangrene legs...women in child
            birth...and there were children, too.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY
            They used some of this diluted
            penicillin against meningitis. The
            lucky children died...
CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            The unlucky ones went off their
            heads. You can see them now in the
            mental ward.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down thoughtfully.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            That is the racket Harry Lime
            organized.

                         MARTINS
            Calloway, you haven't shown me one
            shred of evidence.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            We're just coming to that. Paine, a
            magic lantern show.

He gets up and exits CR.

CLOSE SHOT - LANTERN PROJECTOR

Paine enters from CR and starts to move the machine away CR.

                         PAINE
            Very good, sir.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            You know, Paine's one of your
            devoted readers. He's promised...

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CR for Martins - he unrolls lantern screen with
R hand.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...to lend me one of your
            books...which one is it, Paine?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

with the lantern slide projector - and Martins seated CR of
him in f.g. cigarette in hand.

                         PAINE
            "The Lone Rider of"Santa Fe," sir.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

adjusting screen back to camera.

                         CALLOWAY
            That's right - "The Lone Rider...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

upstage CL with Martins in R f.g. looking off CL. Paine is
preparing the lantern slides.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            ...of Santa Fe."

                         PAINE
            I'd like to visit Texas one day, sir.

                         MARTINS
            Come on, show me what you've got to
            show.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CR for Paine screen CR or him.

                         CALLOWAY
            All right, Paine?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in R f.g. looking off CL - Paine in b.g. preparing lantern
projector puts out light.

                         PAINE
            Yes, sir.

Light goes out.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

in R profile the screen CR of him. A slide of a rhinoceros
is projected onto it.

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine, Paine, Paine...

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

at lantern projector. He is changing the slide.

                         PAINE
            I got them muddled. This is the new
            lot that's just come in from Mr.
            Crabbin.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

the screen CR of him. A slide is projected onto the screen,
of two civilians talking to a British soldier. Calloway
points to the civilian in L f.g. with stick then looks off
CR for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            You see this man here - a fellow
            called Harbin, medical orderly at
            the general hospital. He worked for
            Lime and helped to steal the stuff
            from the laboratories...we forced
            him to give information to us which
            led us as far as Kurtz and
            Lime...but we didn't arrest them,
            as our evidence wasn't complete and
            it might have spoiled our chances
            of getting the others.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in R f.g. with Paine seen behind him CL at the lantern
projector.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Next, Paine.

                         MARTINS
            I would like a word with this
            orderly Harbin.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

CL of screen on which is projected on CL side a set of
finger prints labelled: RECORDED FINGER PRINT OF HARRY LIME

On the CR side of the screen is a jar with finger prints on
it from which the enlarged finger print was taken.

                         CALLOWAY
            So would I.

                         MARTINS
            Bring him in.

                         CALLOWAY
            I can't. He disappeared...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

with Paine seen behind him CL at lantern projector.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...a week ago.

                         MARTINS
            It's more like a mortuary than
            police headquarters.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

screen CR of him. Harry Lime's finger prints still projected
on it. He points to the jar.

                         CALLOWAY
            We have better witnesses. Look here.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSEUP

or a man's L eye. Music starts.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSEUP - LEATHER CORNER DESK BLOTTING PAD

with three blots of ink writing ringed and arrowed. A hand
with small mirror comes in from R f.g., holding it against
the writing.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

holding two test tubes up to the light and comparing them.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSEUP - FILE

on desk, hearing words: "HARBIN'S FINGERPRINTS ON MEDICINE
CABINET," hand in f.g. holding magnifying glass over prints.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

BIG CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down in front of him - bewildered.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - FROM HIGH ANGLE - CALLOWAY'S OFFICE

Calloway, seated at his desk, Martins facing him, with
another office CL. The desk is littered with papers, etc.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

past Calloway in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            How could he have done it?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            Seventy pounds a tube. Go back to
            the hotel. And do keep out of
            trouble. I'll try and fix things
            with the Austrian police...You'll
            be all right in the hotel, but I
            can't....

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off past CR for Calloway. CAMERA PANS UP as he gets
to his feet.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            ...be responsible for you in the
            streets.

                         MARTINS
            I'm not asking you to.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'm sorry, Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at the door, coat over his arm, looking off CR. CAMERA PANS
RL as he moves to door, revealing Paine who is opening the
door. He hands him his hat.

                         MARTINS
            I'm sorry, too. Still got that
            aeroplane ticket on you?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated behind his desk. Picks up phone, looking off CL for
Martins

                         CALLOWAY
            We'll send one across to your hotel...

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE - CL AND MARTINS

at the open door, looking off CR.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            ...in the morning.

                         MARTINS
            Thank you. Excuse me.

Martins is about to leave when the Russian officer appears
from the office across the hall and crosses to enter the
room. He comes through the goor between Paine and Martins
the latter goes out of door, and the Russian exits CR to
Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Get me...

MED. CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

moving downstage to Calloway's desk - past the latter in R
f.g., telephone in hand. The Russian stands at the CR end of
the desk, looking down at Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...Austrian Police Headquarters.

                         RUSSIAN
            Can I have that woman's passport?

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN OFFICER

smoking a cigarette and looking down off R for Calloway.

                         RUSSIAN
            You know, the Anna Schmidt one.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated at desk, holding phone.
                         CALLOWAY
            Oh, we're not going to pick her up
            for that, are we?

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN OFFICER

looking down off R, for Calloway.

                         RUSSIAN
            What can we do?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated at desk, looking up off L. He opens drawer at his
side and takes out passport.

                         RUSSIAN (O.S.)
            We have our instructions. Thank you.

CLOSEUP - INSERT OF PASSPORT

as Calloway throws it onto desk. It bears Anna Schmidt's
name. The Russian's hand comes in from CL and picks it up.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - DANCE FLOOR

inside club. A waiter is moving downstage with a drink on a
tray. The floor and tables are deserted, but for one
spectator in b.g. The waiter exits CR.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated at a table, an empty glass and some money in front of
him. Waiter enters from CL and puts drink on the table in
front of him. Martins pays him.

MED. SHOT - ROW OF GIRLS

seated at the bar, backs to camera, but all turned round to
look off CR for Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at table with drink. He looks up off CR, then CL.

CLOSE SHOT - WOMAN FLOWER SELLER

holding two bunches of Chrysanthemums, leaning against a
pillar. She is looking off CR for Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated at table, sipping drink. He is looking off CL. He
puts glass down, beckons to flower seller off L, gets up and
exits CL, as we

                                            CUT TO:

MED. CLOSE SHOT - FLOWER SELLER

offers Martins CR of her, a bunch of flowers. He takes them
both, giving her some money. He moves away, upstage, toward
door and she moves to exit CR.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSEUP - ANNA

lying in bed in darkened room R, profile favoring camera.
There is a knock on door. She gets up and exits CR.

                         ANNA
            Wer ist da?

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Me.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

enters from the bedroom CL, and taking her dressing gown
from end of it, moves upstage LR toward light switch. She
puts this on. There is a knock on the door. She puts on her
dressing gown, crosses LR to door, CAMERA PANNING with her.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

at door. She opens CR side. Martins is revealed in the open
doorway, his arms full of flowers.

                         MARTINS
            Hullo.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

at door, looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            What is it? What's happened to you?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

over the top of Anna's head in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I just came to see you.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Come in.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in door, past Anna in R f.g. He comes in and exits CL.

                         ANNA
            I thought you were going to go away.
            Aren't the police after you?

                         MARTINS
            I don't know.

As she closes door, calls after him.

                         ANNA
            You're drunk, aren't you?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

puts down his hat, and looks back off R for Anna. He walks
forward, CAMERA PANNING RL slightly.

                         MARTINS
            A bit. Sorry...but I did want to
            say good-bye before I pushed off.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            I'm going back home.

                         ANNA
            Why?

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Anna. He walks forward to the end of the
bed RL, CAMERA PANNING with him, and holding the flowers, he
leans over the end of the bed in L profile, looking down off
L for kitten.

                         MARTINS
            It's what you've always wanted...all
            of you. Kitty, kitty, kitty, kitty.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

leaning over bed rail and dangling a piece of string from
the bunch of flowers, to a small kitten sitting on the end
of the bed below, to tempt it to play.

                         MARTINS
            Kitty, kitty.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off L for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Don't you want to play, kitty.

CLOSE SHOT - KITTEN

seated on end of bed - the piece of string dangling into
picture. He yawns.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

holding flowers, looking down, off L, for kitten, dangling
string.

                         MARTINS
            Sleepy, kitty?

CLOSE SHOT - KITTEN

gets up and jumps off bed LR.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Not very...

LONG SHOT - KITTEN

enters from CL, jumps onto window sill and out through window.

                         MARTINS
            Sociable, is he?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

takes a few steps RL to CL of Martins. CAMERA PANS with her.

                         ANNA
            No. He only liked Harry. What made
            you decide so suddenly?
                         MARTINS
            I brought you these. They got a
            little wet.
                   (gives her flowers)


                         ANNA
            What happened to your hand?

                         MARTINS
            A parrot...Let it go.

                         ANNA
            Have you seen Calloway?

                         MARTINS
            Can you imagine a parrot nipping a
            man?

                         ANNA
            Have you?

He walks away upstage, toward window in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, I've been saying good-bye all
            over.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

holding flowers and looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...you know.

                         ANNA
            He told you, didn't he?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

from Anna's eye line, leaning against window and looking CL
for her.

                         MARTINS
            Told me?

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            About Harry.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

at the window, looking off CL for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            You know?

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CR for Martins. She turns away.

                         ANNA
            I've seen Major Calloway today.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna. He moves forward and exits CL.
TRACK IN to CS at the window box.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - HIGH ANGLE

from Anna's window. Harry Lime is seen in the street, far
below. He dodges into a doorway.

LONG SHOT - LOW ANGLE - COBBLED STREET

Kitten comes into picture, round corner from CR, moving
downstage.

CLOSE SHOT

feet of Harry Lime as he stands in doorway.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - KITTEN

making his way round the corner. He exits past CR.

LONG SHOT - KITTEN

walking along the CR side of the pavement, close to the wall.
You hear the kitten's "miaow." The doorway tips the R edge
of frame in f.g. Kitten walks up steps, exiting CR.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY LIME'S FEET

Kitten jumps up between them and looks up at him.

CLOSE SHOT - KITTEN

playing with Harry's R shoelace.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated on edge of bed, full face, Martins on far side of
room, walking about.

                         ANNA
            He's better dead. I know he was
            mixed up - but not like that.

                         MARTINS
                   (leans on back of a chair)
            I knew him for twenty years - at
            least I thought I knew him. I
            suppose he was laughing at fools
            like us all the time.

                         ANNA
            He liked to laugh.

                         MARTINS
                   (crosses LR to window)
            Seventy pounds a tube. He wanted me
            to write for his great medical
            charity.

                         ANNA
            I'll put these flowers in water.

She picks them up and exits CL. CAMERA TRACKS IN, PANNING LR
to center, Martins in MED. CLOSE SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            Perhaps I could have raised the
            price to eighty pounds for him.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

putting flowers on table in kitchen alcove, looking off R
for Martins.

                         ANNA
                   (moves to get water
                   jug from stand behind her)
            Oh, please, for heaven's sake. Stop
            making him in your image. Harry was
            real. He wasn't just your friend...

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing looking off CL for Anna.

                         ANNA
            ...and my lover. He was Harry.

                         MARTINS
            Well, don't preach wisdom to me.
            You talk about him as if he had
            occasional bad manners.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

pouring water into vase.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            I don't know - I'm just a hack...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

leaning against trunks and playing idly with piece of string.

                         MARTINS
            ...writer who drinks too much - and
            falls in love with girls. You...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

jug in hand, looking off R for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Me?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Don't be such a fool - of course.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

putting flowers in vase, looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            If you'd rung me up and asked me if
            you were fair or dark - or had a
            moustache. I wouldn't have known.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CAMERA PANNING RL with him as he crosses to window again.

                         MARTINS
            I'm leaving Vienna. I don't care
            whether Harry was murdered by Kurtz
            or Popescu, or a third man.

He switches the light on and off CR of the window.

                         MARTINS
            Whoever killed him, there was some
            sort of justice. Maybe I'd have
            killed him myself.

He moves away from the window again, CAMERA PANNING RL with
him. He stops in L profile in front of dressing table.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

walking downstage, holding vase of flowers - looking off CR
for Martins.

                         ANNA
            A person doesn't change because you
            find out more.

MED. LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing at dressing table, holding small animal mascot he
has picked up from it.

                         MARTINS
            Look, I've got a splitting headache
            and you just stand there and just
            talk, and talk, and talk...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

holding flowers. She puts them down in f.g., laughing. She
moves away CL, still laughing.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            I hate it...

MED. LONG SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna. He walks forward a few steps, still
holding on to the back of the upright chair, CAMERA PANNING
LR with him.

                         MARTINS
            First time I ever saw you laugh. Do
            it...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking down - then moves forward and sits down in CLOSEUP
in f.g. on the bed, CAMERA PANNING with her. She leans on
the bed rail.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...again.

                         ANNA
            There isn't enough for two laughs.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for her. He exits CR.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

seated at end of bed. Martins moves downstage to her and
leans over bed rail, close to her CR. CAMERA TRACKS IN to
HOLD THEM in CLOSE TWO SHOT.

                         MARTINS
            I make comic faces, and stand on my
            head and grin at you between my
            legs, and tell all sorts of
            jokes...I wouldn't stand a chance,
            would I?

CLOSEUP - ANNA

tears in her eyes.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking down off CL for Anna.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

crying.

CLOSEUP - ANNA AND MARTINS

leaning over bed rail CR of her. She lowers her head in tears.

                         MARTINS
            All right...you did tell me I had
            to find myself a girl.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - LIGHTED STREET

man walking along it, upstage.

LONG SHOT - DOORWAY

with kitten seated on step, washing its paw.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

enters from R f.g., moving upstage, back to camera.

LONG SHOT - DOORWAY

kitten sitting on step - from Martins' eye line.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

crossing street to corner of building CR, CAMERA PANNING
with him.

                         MARTINS
            What kind of a spy do you think you
            are?

LONG SHOT - KITTEN

on doorstep. Music stops.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...satchel foot

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at street corner, calling off CR to doorway.

                         MARTINS
            What are you tailing me for?

LONA SHOT - DOORWAY

with kitten on step from Martins' eye line.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Cat got your tongue?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

walking down stage RL, looking off R.

                         MARTINS
            Come on out!

LONG SHOT - STREET

outside the doorway. Martins CL, calling across the street
toward it.

                         MARTINS
            Come out - come out wherever you are!

CLOSE SHOT - KITTEN

in doorway, playing between Lime's feet. Sound of a motor car.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Step out in the light, let's have a
            look at you.

LONG SHOT - WINDOW

from street below. Light goes on. A woman calls off from
inside the room.

                         WOMAN
            Was ist den da los?

Music starts.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY LIME

in the doorway, looking up, full face CL. The light from the
window falls onto his face.

                         WOMAN (O.S.)
            Was bilden sie sich ein...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR, starts forward, reacting to glimpsing Harry
Lime.

                         WOMAN
            ...sind sie teppert. So.

CLOSE SHOT - LIME

looking off L.

                         WOMAN
            Wie kommen sie...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry - transfixed.

                         WOMAN
            ...einen krowall zu machen!

LONG SHOT - WOMAN

at the open window, looking down off CR for the disturbers.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY LIME

CAMERA TRACKS IN to CLOSEUP. He is looking off CL, smiling.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off R for Harry.

                         MARTINS
            Harry!

CLOSE SHOT - LIME

looking off CL.

                         WOMAN
            Wie kommen sie einen krowell zu
            machen.

LONG SHOT - WOMAN

moving back from window.

CLOSEUP - LIME

in doorway. Light from window goes out and his face is in
darkness again.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

exits past CR.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

entering from CL f.g., crossing street in doorway LR. Car
enters from CL f.g., moving upstage and narrowly missing
Martins who dodges back out of its way. It exits b.g. L.

LONG SHOT - CAR

driving downstage and exiting CR, f.g. Martins crosses
street LR to doorway of building - CAMERA TILTED. (Footsteps)

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

entering to doorway from CL. It is bricked up. (Sound of car
driving away). He feels it with both hands. There is no one
there. He steps down to camera.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

steps down on to pavement from doorway. He looks round, then
back over his shoulder.

He reacts to hearing the footsteps behind him, and turns and
runs upstage to corner of street in b.g.

LONG SHOT - STREET

with a man's shadow running along CL wall LR.

                         MARTINS
            Harry!

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CAMERA TILTED - running to camera along street, (sound of
footsteps) he exits CR.

LONG SHOT - DARK STREET

Shadow disappearing at far CL end of street. Martins enters
from L f.g., running upstage, back to camera.

LONG SHOT

reverse of the archway at the end of the street, along which
the shadow was seen. Martins comes through it, running
downstage to camera.

LONG SHOT - DESERTED SQUARE

kiosk near f.g. Martins enters from CL - he looks round and
starts to run upstage toward the kiosk.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

entering from CL, running round kiosk, the side of which is
in L of picture. He looks around.

LONG SHOT - KIOSK

Martins corning round CL side of it. He pushes his hat to
the back of his head and walks to camera which TRACKS BACK
with him. He stops in f.g. at a fountain - he takes a
handful of water from it and splashes it on his face. He
looks round suddenly. Music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

leading Calloway and Paine through the arch at the end of
the street leading to the square. They stop in f.g., then
Martins walks away upstage again, followed by Calloway -
leaving Paine leaning on the fountain in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            I followed his shadow until
            suddenly...

                         CALLOWAY
            Well?...

                         MARTINS
            This is where he vanished.

                         CALLOWAY
            I see.

                         MARTINS
            I suppose you don't believe me.

                         CALLOWAY
            No.

                         MARTINS
            Look...I tell you, you don't think
            I'm blind, do you?

                         CALLOWAY
            Yes. Where were you when you saw
            him first?

                         MARTINS
            Fifty yards right down there.

                         CALLOWAY
            Which side of the road?

                         MARTINS
            I was on that side, the shadow was
            on that side, and no turnings on
            either side.

                         CALLOWAY
            How about the doorway?

                         MARTINS
            I tell you I heard him running
            ahead of me.

                         CALLOWAY
            Yes, yes, yes, and then he vanished
            out there, I suppose with a puff of
            smoke and like a clap of...

Martins starts to walk away upstage again. Calloway looks
intently off R, a sudden thought striking him. Music starts.

LONG SHOT - KIOSK

from Calloway's eye line.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

with Paine and Martins behind him CL. He steps forward and
exits CR. Paine follows.

LONG SHOT - THE SQUARE

The kiosk in f.g. Calloway walks up to it, Paine following
him. Martins enters from L f.g. after them.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

CR of the kiosk in L profile. Paine enters from CL as
Calloway opens door. Paine looks in past Calloway.

LONG SHOT

down a spiral stone staircase inside the kiosk, from Paine's
eye line at the top. Music stops.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

with Calloway CR of him, beside the kiosk.

                         CALLOWAY
            It wasn't the German gin.

Calloway exits down the stairs, out of picture CL. Paine and
Martins follow.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

coming down the spiral staircase, followed by Paine and
Martins - he exits CL down the stairs, followed by Paine.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

walking along tunnel of the sewer toward camera, followed by
Paine and Martins. He walks into closeup. CAMERA PANS RL
with him as he turns corner in tunnel, moving upstage back
to camera, followed by Paine, who re-enters from CR. Martins
is lost out of picture on PAN.

LONG SHOT

overflow gushing, down over wall in R of picture to balcony
above this. Calloway stands on the balcony, looking down to
sewer canal below. Paine enters from CR and stands at his side.

LONG SHOT

overflow gushing, down over sewer wall to canal below, from
Calloway's eye line.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

followed by Paine and Martins, making their way along narrow
alley-way over water in sluice. CAMERA PANS LR as Calloway
turns R, losing Paine and Martins. Paine re-enters from CL,
then we lose him again as CAMERA PANS on, revealing the main
tunnel of the sewer, water running through it.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR. He exits CR.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

Martins and Paine enter to him from CL. CAMERA TRACKS BACK
as Calloway steps forward to CS, leaving Martins and Paine
standing behind him.

                         MARTINS
            What's this - where are we?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND PAINE

CR of him.

                         PAINE
            It's the main sewer...runs right
            into the Blue Danube. Smells sweet,
            doesn't it?

Paine crosses in front of Martins RL, exiting.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

in L f.g. He is looking down thoughtfully off CR. Paine
moves downstage to CR of him.

                         CALLOWAY
            We should have dug deeper than a
            grave.

Sound of rushing water in sewer steps. Music starts.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - CEMETERY

Martins and Calloway in L f.g. Paine CR f.g. At the grave in
b.g.

L some men are grouped round - they are about to exhume
Harry Lime's body.

MED. SHOT - GRAVE DIGGERS

grouped round the grave - some are standing inside it and
throw their shovels to the top.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

seated in profile in L f.g. heating a glass over a burning
torch. Calloway seen behind him, upstage, looking toward the
grave.

MED. SHOT - GRAVE DIGGERS

pulling up the coffin. Cemetery official walks downstage
holding a lighted flare.

                         OFFICIAL
            So jetz...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated, holding flaring torch in L f.g. on edge of graves.

                         OFFICIAL (O.S.)
            ...bringen wir den sarg heraus.

Martins gets to his feet to exit.

MED. SHOT

of the grave - coffin being pulled up. Calloway entering to
the grave.

                         CALLOWAY
            Auf machen.

CLOSE SHOT - GRAVE DIGGER

CAMERA PANNING DOWN as he kneels in L of picture and looks
down into the grave.

MED. LONG SHOT - CALLOWAY

with Paine CR of him, looking down into grave in f.g. Grave
digger Official CL f.g., raising the lid of the coffin. They
look in - Calloway and Paine move away CR.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in L profile, looking off L. He moves away. Music stops.

                         OFFICIAL (O.S.)
            You knew him...

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

walking upstage, Paine CR of him - Graveyard Official, in L
f.g.

                         OFFICIAL
            ...Major?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Official in L f.g. He walks LR into CLOSEUP, CAMERA
PANNING with him, losing Official. Paine is seen behind him CL.

                         CALLOWAY
            Hmm, yes, yes. Joseph
            Harbin...medical orderly at the
            General Hospital. He used to work
            for Harry Lime.

He turns away.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            Joseph Harbin?

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

past Official in L f.g. - he looks off CR at Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            Yes, he's the man I told you was
            missing. Next time, we'll have a
            foolproof coffin.

Music starts.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA'S OPEN PASSPORT

on a desk. Hand picks it up to look at it from f.g.

LONG SHOT - FOUR MEMBERS OF THE INTERNATIONAL PATROL

outside closed door of the office. Brodsky, the Russian
officer, enters through them, carrying Anna's passport, and
calls to the Russian representative, who leaves the others
and goes to him.

                         BRODSKY
            Smirnoff! Peshalnite suda - vosmite
            etot pasport I proisvedite arast.

                         SOLDIER
            Slushayus Toverich Commandir.

He starts to walk away, back to the others.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - INTERNATIONAL PATROL

in open jeep, traveling toward camera.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT

over iron bannister rail in Anna's house. The members of the
International Patrol, making its way up the stairs LR.
Anna's landlady comes into picture from CL, following them
up, and calling after them.

                         LANDLADY
            Sie kommen doch nicht alleine da
            harauf gahen warten wie doch bis
            ich nachkornen ich cann ja nicht so
            rennen..

MED. SHOT - LANDLADY

eiderdown wrapped round her, looking up off CL at the Patrol
from the corner of the staircase.

                         LANDLADY
            Schlicselich ist das aach eine
            austan diges naus and keine kasorpe.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

in R profile, lying awake on her pillow. Footsteps are heard.

                         POLICE (O.S.)
            Aufmachen!

                         ANNA
            We ist da?

                         POLICE (O.S.)
            International politzel...

Anna gets up and exits CR.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

walking across the room toward the door LR. She picks up her
dressing-gown from end of bed and starts to put it on,
CAMERA PANNING LR with her.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

opens inner and outer doors, leadlng to her room. Russian
soldier with other members of the patrol behind him, is
revealed outside. He steps forward to CS past Anna in L f.g.

                         RUSSIAN
            Fraulein Schmidt?

                         ANNA
            Ja, was wollen sie?

                         RUSSIAN
            Sie mussen mit uns kommen.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Russian in R f.g. He is holding her passport.

                         ANNA
            Warum?

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

past Anna in L f.g., holding up her passport.

                         RUSSIAN
            Ist das ihre pass?

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Russian in R f.g., holding up her passport for her to see.

                         ANNA
            Ja.

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

past Anna in L f.g. He is holding up her passport.

                         RUSSIAN
            Bitte - siechen sie sick an...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Russian in R f.g. She turns away.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

in center of room. She picks up her clothes from back of chair.

MED. SHOT - RUSSIAN

just inside the room, holding Anna's passport, other members
of the Patrol behind him. He walks forward, looking off CR
for Anna.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

at chair, clothes in her arms, bends to pick up shoes from
the floor. Sound of door opening. She walks upstage, toward
darkened alcove in b.g.

                         LANDLADY (O.S.)
            Was ist donn nun wieder les. Wird
            das so weiter gehen? Kommen sie
            jetz jeden tag zu uns? Was machen,
            denn die dadringen.

CLOSE SHOT - LANDLADY AND BRITISH SOLDIER

of the Patrol, leaning against pillar CR of her.

                         LANDLADY
            Kommen sie nicht rader ja nichten
            nichten nichten. Das kennen jeder.

The solider ignoring her, moves away from the pillar and
goes to door. She turns to call after him upstage.

                         LANDLADY
            Rade sollen sie kommen sie nicht
            deutch? Die sprechen hatten sie
            schon langst lernen kommen. Large
            genug sind sie jat hier, jetz geht
            er. Was glotzen sie mich an? Habon
            sie nach nie einen turkey geschen?

LONG SHOT - ANNA

putting on her jacket, walks downstage past Russian soldier
in L f.g. She exits CR and he turns to look after her.

LONG SHOT

past Russian soldier who has turned round in L f.g. Anna
moves to switch on light CR of American member of the patrol
standing in the window.

Russian soldier crosses f.g. LR and Anna picks up her coat
in b.g. and is helped on with it by American.

                         ANNA
            Where are you taking me?

                         AMERICAN
            International Police Headquarters,
            just to check up.

CLOSEUP - LANDLADY

in doorway, looking off CL for Anna.

                         LANDLADY
            Haben sie denn garne in shame...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR for landlady.

                         ANNA
            Aber regen sie sich nicht auf.

                         LANDLADY
            Un glaublich!

                         RUSSIAN
            Ist gut - ist gut.

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

enters from CL and turns to look back off CL for Anna.

                         RUSSIAN
            Bernigen sie sich sind sie fertig
            fraulein?

CLOSE SHOT - BRITISH SOLDIER

looking off CL for Anna, who enters from CL.

                         BRITISH SOLDIER
            I'm sorry, Miss, it's orders. We
            can't go against the Protocol.

                         ANNA
            I don't even know what the Protocol
            means.

                         BRITISH SOLDIER
            Neither do I, Miss.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

with Russian CR of her, and other members of the Patrol
following, coming out of her door, into the corridor.

Landlady in CR f.g. French soldier comes up behind Anna CL
and hands Anna her lipstick -

                         FRENCH SOLDIER
            Mademoiselle, your lipstick.

She turns to take it.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

pacing about on the large main staircase of the International
Police Headquarters.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

escorted by the International Patrol, entering the main hall
of the Police Headquarters.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off R, reacting to hearing Anna approach. He moves
to exit -

MED. SHOT - ANNA

coming up the stairs with an MP either side of her.

                         MARTINS
            Anna, what's happened to you?

LONG - HIGH ANGLE SHOT - ANNA

with escort, coming up the stairs RL toward Martins, on
first landing. He runs up after them.

                         M.P.
            All right, all right, keep out of
            this.

                         MARTINS
            Listen, I've got to talk to you.
            I've just seen a dead man walk.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

with her escort, including the Russian soldier, coming into
picture, upstairs LR in R profile. Martins runs after them.

                         M.P.
            All right chum, get back.

                         MARTINS
            I saw him buried!

The M.P.'s push him away.

                         M.P.
            Cut it out...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

and her escorts crossing screen LR up the stairs.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            And now I've seen him alive.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

comes out of door, holding some documents. He walks forward,
and stops looking off.

LONG SHOT

from HIGH ANGLE down to first floor of Headquarters. Anna
and her escort coming up to top of stairs LR - Calloway
standing outside door of his office CR of picture.

                         CALLOWAY
            Just a minute. Bring her in here.
            You stay out here.

He goes through the door, and Anna and the Patrol follow.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

going into the door of his office, followed by Anna, a
member of the patrol just behind.

                         CALLOWAY
            Come in, Miss Schmidt.

He closes door, leaving the patrol outside, seen through the
glass window to the corridor beyond. He closes door and
crosses in front of her RL, CAMERA PANNING with him, Anna
following, and we SHOOT PAST him in L f.g. to Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            Now then, Miss Schmidt, I'm not
            interested in your forged papers -
            that's purely a Russian case. When
            did you last see Lime?

                         ANNA
            Two weeks ago.

He steps to her.

                         CALLOWAY
            I want the truth, Miss Schmidt. We
            know he is alive.

                         ANNA
            It's true then?

He crosses in front of her LR, CAMERA PANNING with him - he
stops in R f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            Joseph Harbin's body was found in
            the coffin.

                         ANNA
            What did you say? I'm sorry...

He crosses in front of her again RL, CAMERA PANNING - and
stands in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            I said another man was buried in
            his place.

                         ANNA
            Where's Harry?

                         CALLOWAY
            That's what we want to find out.

                         ANNA
            I'm sorry - I don't seem able to
            understand anything you say. He's
            alive now this minute - he's doing
            something.

                         CALLOWAY
            Miss Schmidt, we know he is
            somewhere across the canal in the
            Russian sector... You may as well
            help us. In a few minutes Colonel
            Brodsky will be questioning you
            about your papers. Tell me where
            Lime is.

                         ANNA
            I don't know.

                         CALLOWAY
            If you help me, I am prepared to
            help you.
                         ANNA
            Martins always said you were a fool...

He crosses in front of her LR, CAMERA PANNING to door and
opens it.

                         CALLOWAY
            Vienna is a closed city, Miss
            Schmidt, he can't get away.

                         ANNA
            Poor Harry, I wish he was dead, he
            would be safe from all of you then.

She goes through door.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

walking down cobbled street, toward Kurtz' house in L f.g.
Rubble in b.g.

LONG SHOT

from ground level, Kurtz looking down over the balcony to
doorway below.

                         KURTZ
            Why that's you!

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing in front of the house, looking up off L in L
profile for Kurtz.

                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            Come up!

LONG SHOT - KURTZ

on the balcony. He calls off into the room behind him.

                         KURTZ
            Winkel, look who's here!

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

in the street, looking up off L for Kurtz on the balcony.
Tram crossing in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            I want to speak to you, Kurtz.
                         KURTZ (O.S.)
            Of course...come up.

                         MARTINS
            I'll wait here.

LONG SHOT - KURTZ

with Winkel now CR of him, looking down off CR for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            I don't understand.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

in street, looking up off CL for Kurtz and Winkel.

                         MARTINS
            I want to talk to Harry.

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND WINKEL

on the balcony, looking down off R for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            Are you mad?

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            All right - I'm mad. I've seen a
            ghost...

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking up, off CL for Kurtz.

                         MARTINS
            You tell Harry I want to see him.

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND WINKEL

looking down off CR for Martins.

                         KURTZ
            Be reasonable - come up and talk.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

with the big wheel in b.g. He moves away upstage, pointing
to the wheel and calling back.

                         MARTINS
            No thank you - I like the open.
            Tell him I'll wait by that wheel
            there...Or do ghosts only ride by
            night, Dr. Winkel? Got an opinion
            on that?

CLOSE SHOT - KURTZ AND WINKEL

on the balcony, looking down off R for Martins. They turn
away. Music starts.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

seated on parapet of "Chairoplane" at deserted fair ground,
the big wheel behind him. He gets up and starts to walk
round the "Chairoplane" stand.

LONG SHOT - MERRY-GO-ROUND

It is still and nobody near it.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

standing CR of the "Chairoplane" stand, the big wheel behind
him in b.g. He walks forward into MED. CLOSE SHOT, looking
off CL.

LONG SHOT - MERRY-GO-ROUND

and deserted fair ground, with Harry Lime seen in far b.g.
walking downstage - from Martins' eye line.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL.

MED. LONG SHOT - HARRY

moving downstage, looking off CR, smiling for Martins - he
exits CR. Music stops.

MED. SHOT - HARRY

walks downstage to Martins in R f.g. He walks round him and
stops in L profile R f.g., facing Martins.

                         HARRY
            Hello, old man. How are you?

Fair attendant passes in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            Hello, Harry.

                         HARRY
            Well, well, they seem to've been
            giving you quite some busy time.

                         MARTINS
            Listen...

                         HARRY
            Yes.

                         MARTINS
            I want to talk to you.

                         HARRY
            Talk to me?...Of course...Come on...

LONG SHOT - SHOOTING UP

through the structure of the big wheel from ground level -
CAMERA PANS UP slightly.

MED. SHOT - HARRY

taking off his coat, enters from CR, followed by Martins.
The girl attendant of the wheel enters b.g. CL.

                         HARRY
            Kids used to ride this thing a lot
            in the old days. They haven't got
            the money nowadays, poor little
            devils.

Harry gets the tickets from her.

                         GIRL
            Zwei steck.

                         HARRY
            Geht in ordung.

They enter the carriage of the wheel.

                         GIRL
            Vielen danke.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

enters carriage RL, followed by Harry. Girl attendant closes
the door and starts the wheel in motion.

                         MARTINS
            Listen, Harry - I didn't believe
            that...

                         HARRY
            It's good to see you, Holly.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in R profile, looking off L for Harry.

                         MARTINS
            I was at your funeral.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off L for Martins - the wheel is turning - ground
seen through window in b.g.

                         HARRY
            It was pretty smart, wasn't it? Oh,
            the same old indigestion.
                   (takes a tablet)
            Holly...these are the only things
            that help - these tablets. These
            are the last. Can't get them
            anywhere in Europe any more.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in R profile, looking off CL for Harry.

                         MARTINS
            Do you know what's happened to your
            girl?

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

in L profile - window in b.g. - and Vienna far below. He
looks off R for Martins.

                         HARRY
            Hmm.

                         MARTINS
            She's been arrested.

                         HARRY
            Tough...tough...Don't worry, old
            man, they won't hurt her.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry.

                         MARTINS
            They are handing her over to the
            Russians.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CL for Martins - ground seen through window in b.g.

                         HARRY
            What can I do, old man, I'm dead,
            aren't I?

                         MARTINS
            You can help her.

                         HARRY
            Holly...

He exits past CL.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

Harry enters from CR to him and stands in L profile, looking
out of the window, then at him, as he stops in front of him.

                         HARRY
            ...exactly who did you tell about
            me? Hmm?

                         MARTINS
            I told the police.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

past Martins in L f.g. He is in L profile, looking out of
the window.

                         HARRY
            Unwise, Holly...

                         MARTINS
            And - Anna...

                         HARRY
            Did the police believe you?

                         MARTINS
            You don't care anything at all
            about Anna, do you?

He laughs.

                         HARRY
            Well, I've got quite a lot on my mind.

                         MARTINS
            You wouldn't do anything.

Harry looks at Martins.

                         HARRY
            What do you want me to do?

                         MARTINS
                   (overlap)
            You can get somebody else...

                         HARRY
            Do you expect me to give myself up?

                         MARTINS
            Why not?

                         HARRY
            It's far better thing that I do...
            Holly, you and I aren't heroes, the
            world doesn't make any heroes...

                         MARTINS
            You've got plenty of contacts.

                         HARRY
            Outside of your stories...I've got
            to be careful.

He turns away to exit CR.

MED. SHOT - HARRY

enters from CL and stands, in R profile, near the window.

                         HARRY
            I'm only safe in the Russian Zone...
            I'm safe as long as they can use me...

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            As long as they can use you?

                         HARRY
            I wish I could get rid of this thing.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, so that's how they found out
            about Anna...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

entering from CL to Harry, standing by the window of the
carriage. CAMERA PANS LR slightly as he walks to and fro in
front of Harry.

                         MARTINS
            You told them, didn't you?

                         HARRY
            Don't try to be a policeman, old man.

                         MARTINS
            What did you expect me to be - part
            of your...

He crosses LR.

                         HARRY
            Part? You can have any part you
            want, so long as you don't
            interfere...I have never cut you
            out of anything yet.

                         MARTINS
            I remember when they raided the
            gambling joint - you know a safe
            way out...

                         HARRY
            Sure...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in L profile. Sound of wheel over scene.

                         MARTINS
            Yes, safe for you...not safe for me.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

Martins' head tipping L edge of frame -

                         HARRY
            Old man - you never should have
            gone to the police. You know you
            ought to leave this thing alone.

Martins turns his head so that we SHOOT PAST him R profile
in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Have you ever seen any of your
            victims?

                         HARRY
            Do you know, I don't ever feel
            comfortable on these sort of
            things...Victims?

He opens the door of the carriage.

                         HARRY
            Don't be melodramatic.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

in L f.g., Harry opening door in b.g.

                         HARRY
            Look down there...

LONG SHOT

from Martins' eye line of the fair ground far below and the
people now on it.

                         HARRY (O.S.)
            Would you feel any pity if one of
            those dots stopped moving forever?

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CL for Martins.

                         HARRY
            If I offered you £20,000 for every
            dot that stopped - would you
            really, old man, tell me to keep my
            money? Or would you calculate how
            many dots you could afford to
            spare?...Free of Income Tax, old
            man...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry.

                         HARRY
            ...free of Income Tax.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CL for Martins. Sound of wheel over scene.

                         HARRY
            It's the only way to save money
            nowadays.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry. He moves forward.

                         MARTINS
            Lot of good your money will do you
            in jail.

Exits CR.

MED. LONG SHOT - HARRY

standing CR of the open window. Martins enters from CL.

                         HARRY
            That jail is in another zone...

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

over Martins' R shoulder.

                         HARRY
            There's no proof against me, beside
            you.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking down CR, Harry tipping R edge of frame.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

over Martins' R shoulder.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over Harry's L shoulder.

                         MARTINS
            I should be pretty easy to get rid of.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

over Martins' R shoulder.

                         HARRY
            Pretty easy...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over Harry's L shoulder.

                         MARTINS
            I wouldn't be too sure.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

over Martins' R shoulder.

                         HARRY
            I carry a gun...I don't think
            they'd look for a bullet wound
            after you'd hit that ground...

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over Harry's L shoulder. Sound of wheel over.

                         MARTINS
            They have dug up your coffin.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

over Martins' R shoulder.

                         HARRY
            And found Harbin? Hmm, pity.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

CL - Harry turning back in R f.g. to look at him.

                         HARRY
            Oh, Holly, what fools we are,
            talking to each other this way...
            As though I would do anything to
            you - or you to me.

Harry moves upstage to Martins, CAMERA TRACKS IN with him -
and Martins exits CL. Harry closes the door of the carriage.

                         HARRY
            You're just a little mixed up about
            things.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

sits down into position at the side of the carriage, looking
thoughtfully off R.

                         HARRY (O.S.)
            ...in general. Nobody thinks in
            terms...

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

walks downstage RL, CAMERA TRACKS BACK with him - and he
stops in CLOSEUP, looking off L for Martins.

                         HARRY
            ...of human beings. Governments
            don't, so why should we? They talk
            about the people, and the
            Proletariat... I talk about the
            suckers and the mugs...
                   (walks away upstage
                   to M.C.S. at window)
            It's the same thing. They have
            their five-year plan, and so have I.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated, looking off R - the window behind him.

                         MARTINS
            You used to believe in God.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

at window, looking back over his shoulder off L for Martins.

                         HARRY
            I still do believe in God, old
            man... I believe in God and Mercy
            and all that... The dead are
            happier dead. They don't miss much
            here...

CAMERA PANS RL with him as he moves slightly still, looking
off L, and starts to idly write on the window at his side -
out of picture.

CLOSE SHOT - THE WINDOW

Wheel turning over scene. Harry's hand in picture from CR -
he has drawn on the steamed-up window a heart with an arrow
through it. He is writing the word ANNA above it.

                         HARRY (O.S.)
            ...poor devils.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off R, reacting to the heart on the window pane.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

at the window, looking off L for Martins.

                         HARRY
            What do you believe in?

He exits CR. Wheel noise stops.

MED. SHOT - HARRY

walking to window LR. Martins enters from L f.g., moving up
to his side. We see they are now on ground level, through
the window.

                         HARRY
            Well, if you ever get Anna out of
            this mess, be kind to her.

He opens the door and Martins starts to go through.

                         HARRY
            You'll find she's worth it.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

coming out of the carriage of the big wheel, followed by
Harry. CAMERA TRACKS BACK with them and stops as they stop
in CS in f.g. - Martins CL.

                         HARRY
            I wish I had asked you to bring me
            some of these tablets from home...
            Holly, I would like to cut you in,
            old man. Nobody left in Vienna I
            can really trust - and we have
            always done everything together.
            When you make up your mind, send me
            a message... I'll meet you any
            place, any time. And when we do
            meet, old man, it is you I want to
            see, not the police. Remember that,
            won't you?...

Martin moves away LR, CAMERA PANNING with him - but Harry
back up and bars his way on the steps. Music starts.

                         HARRY
            Don't be so gloomy...After all,
            it's not that awful. Remember what
            the fellow said...

He backs a little down the steps in CS and CAMERA PANS LR
with him, losing Martins.

                         HARRY
            - in Italy, for thirty years under
            the Borgias, they had warfare,
            terror, murder, bloodshed, but they
            produced Michaelangelo - Leonardo
            Da Vinci, and the Renaissance...In
            Switzerland, they had brotherly
            love. They had five hundred years
            of democracy and peace, and what did
            that produce?...The cuckoo clock.
            So long, Holly.

He exits quickly CR.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

leaning on the rail, looking down thoughtfully.

LONG SHOT - MERRY-GO-ROUND

- a small boy going round on it. Harry enters from CR f.g.,
looks back - then continues on upstage, toward the merry-go-
round. Music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

in his office. Martins in L f.g. Calloway moves upstage to
map on wall and gestures to it.

                         CALLOWAY
            Look here, Martins. You can always
            arrange to meet him at some cafe
            here in the International zone.

He walks away LR, CAMERA TRACKING AND PANNING with him,
losing Calloway and revealing Paine - Martins continues on
behind Calloway's desk, losing Paine - and looks off L for
Calloway.

                         MARTINS
            It wouldn't work.

                         CALLOWAY
            We'll never get him in the Russian
            zone.

                         MARTINS
            Calloway, you expect too much. I
            know he deserves to hang, you
            proved your stuff. But twenty years
            is a long time - don't ask me to
            tie the rope.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off R for Martins, CAMERA PANS LR with him as he
moves away.

                         CALLOWAY
            Okay, forget it.

MED. SHOT - RUSSIAN OFFICER

comes through door (sound of door opening) - looks off R for
Calloway.

                         BRODSKY
            Busy, Major?

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off CL for Russian.

                         CALLOWAY
            What is it, Brodsky?

MED. SHOT - RUSSIAN

holding file, looking off R for Calloway. He walks forward
to CS and hands file off R to Calloway.

                         BRODSKY
            We have identified the girl. Here
            is her...report.

Music starts.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Russian in L f.g., Calloway looking at file. He puts
passport down on desk.

CLOSE SHOT - PASSPORT

falling onto desk as Calloway puts it down.

                         CALLOWAY
            I've questioned her - we've...

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down off CR at the passport on the table.

                         CALLOWAY
            ...got nothing against her.

                         BRODSKY
            We shall...

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN OFFICER

looking off R for Calloway.

                         BRODSKY
            ...apply for her at the Four Power
            Meeting tomorrow. She has no right
            to be here.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking down off R at the passport.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA'S PASSPORT

lying on Calloway's desk.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

past Russian in L f.g.

                         CALLOWAY
            I've asked your people to help with
            Lime.

                         BRODSKY
            That's...

CLOSE SHOT - RUSSIAN

looking off R for Calloway.

                         BRODSKY
            ...a different case. It's being
            looked into. So long.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking down. He walks away upstage RL, CAMERA PANNING with
him.

                         BRODSKY
            ...Major.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            In the last war, a General would
            hang his opponent's picture on the
            wall...

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated at desk.

                         CALLOWAY
            He got to know him that way.

CLOSEUP - BACK OF MARTINS' HEAD

favoring his L profile. He turns around to look off for
Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY
            I think this would have worked with
            your help.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY'S OPEN FILE

with two photographs. PAN RL to Anna's passport.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

in L profile, looking at him.

                         MARTINS
            What price would you pay?

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off R for Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            Name it.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at station barrier. Train in b.g. Music stops. Sound of
steam train.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

with Paine CR coming up steps of station. (Sound of train.)
LR, they exit CR.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

at barrier, looking off L for Anna. He moves to exit R.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

enters from L f.g. followed by Paine. Train in b.g. She
moves away upstage.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

behind barrier, looking off L.

MED. SHOT - PAINE

getting into train compartment, followed by Anna. CAMERA
TRACKS in to interior of carriage.

                         PAINE
            Here we are. You'll be all right
            here, Miss.

                         ANNA
            I don't...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in corner of compartment, looking at passport.

                         ANNA
            ...understand Major Calloway.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

CAMERA AT AN ANGLE. He puts things on rack, looks off R for
Anna.

                         PAINE
            I expect he has a soft spot for
            you, Miss.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

passport in hands, looking off L for Paine. (Train noise.)

                         ANNA
            Why has he done all this?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

reaching up to luggage rack - CAMERA TILTED.

                         PAINE
            Don't you worry, Miss. You're well
            out of things.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

putting a bundle on the CR rack.

                         PAINE
            There you are, Miss.

CAMERA TRACKS BACK to MED. SHOT, revealing outside of carriage.

                         ANNA
            Thank you, you have been so kind.
Anna moves down to stand CL of Paine.

                         PAINE
            Well, I'll be saying good night.
            Good night, Miss.

                         ANNA
            Good-bye.

He exits to camera and Anna closes door of carriage behind
him and turns back into carriage.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in train, sits down in corner. She takes off hat - rubs
window and looks off CL.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

walking upstage, along platform to buffet.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off L - gets up.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

going into buffet from Anna's eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

gets out of compartment.

MED. SHOT

through door of buffet. Anna enters, CAMERA TRACKING AND
PANNING RL with her and revealing Martins seated at bar. He
looks up.

                         ANNA
            Are you going, too?

                         MARTINS
            Oh...

MED. SHOT - ANNA

past Martins in L f.g.

                         ANNA
            What are you doing here?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

standing at bar, looking off R for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            I wanted to see you off.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

standing, looking off L for Martins.

                         ANNA
            See me off? From here?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, I watched you on the train. No
            harm in that.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

looking off L for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...is there?

                         ANNA
            How did you know I would be here?

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looking off R for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            I heard something about it at
            Police...

MED. SHOT - ANNA

at door - she walks forward CL.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...Headquarters.

                         ANNA
            Have you been seeing Major Calloway
            again?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off R for Anna, who enters from CR.

                         MARTINS
            Of course not. I don't live in his
            pocket.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

past Martins in L f.g.

                         ANNA
            Harry, what is it?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Anna in R f.g. (Train noises over.)

                         MARTINS
            For heaven's sake - stop calling me...

CLOSE SHOT

past Martins in L f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Harry.

                         ANNA
            I'm sorry.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

past Anna in R f.g. He reacts to station announcer in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            Let's go.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

takes Anna's arm and CAMERA PANS LR as they start toward
door, Martin CR.

                         ANNA
            What is on your mind? Why did you
            hide?

                         MARTINS
            Hide? Can't a fellow have a drink?

He puts his coat round her shoulders and CAMERA continues to
PAN them to door.

                         MARTINS
            Here, it will be cold on that train.

                         ANNA
            I shall be all right.

                         MARTINS
            You send me a wire as soon as you
            arrive.

They exit through door CR. CAMERA TRACKS RL to shoot through
buffet window, past Anna to Martins.

                         ANNA
            What is going to happen? Where is
            Harry?

                         MARTINS
            He's safe in the Russian zone.

                         ANNA
            How do you know?

                         MARTINS
            I saw him today.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off L for Martins - door of the buffet behind her.

                         ANNA
            How is he?

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

opening outer door to let Anna out.

                         MARTINS
            He can look after himself, don't
            worry.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins, who enters from CL to her R
side, to hurry her out. CAMERA TRACKS IN as she moves back
against inner door away from him, and WE SHOOT over his R
shoulder to her.

                         ANNA
            Did he say anything about me - tell
            me?

                         MARTINS
            Oh, the usual things...

                         ANNA
            There's something wrong. Did you
            tell Calloway about meeting Harry?

CAMERA PANS RL slightly as Martins crosses f.g.

                         MARTINS
            Of course I didn't tell Calloway.

                         ANNA
            Why should he help me like that?
            The Russians will only make trouble
            for him.

Anna starts to back through swing doors, back into the
buffet, Martins looking at her. She exits CR.

                         MARTINS
            That's his headache.

                         ANNA
            His.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, well.

                         ANNA
            Why are you lying?

                         MARTINS
            We're getting you out of here,
            aren't we?

CLOSE SHOT- ANNA

looking off L for Martins.

                         ANNA
            I'm not going.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

at door. CAMERA PANS L with him following Anna and crosses
from door to her. WE SHOOT OVER her L shoulder to him in CS.

                         MARTINS
            You...Anna, don't you recognize a
            good turn when you see one.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

over Martins' shoulder. She steps forward.

                         ANNA
            You have seen Calloway. What are
            you two doing?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over Anna's L shoulder.

                         MARTINS
            Well, they asked me to help take
            him, and I'm helping.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off L for Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over Anna's L shoulder. He turns away to exit CL.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking down CR.

                         ANNA
            Poor Harry.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

by tables in buffet, bapk to camera.

                         MARTINS
            Poor Harry?

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking down CR.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

standing by tables, looking off CL for Anna.

                         MARTINS
            Poor Harry! Wouldn't even lift a
            finger to help you.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            Oh, you've got your precious
            honesty and don't want anything else.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

looks off CL for Anna, then turns away.

                         MARTINS
            You still want him.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

in front of coffee bar, looking off CR for Martins. Sound of
train whistle.

                         ANNA
            I don't want him any more. I don't
            want to see him or hear him, but he
            is still part of me, that's a fact.
            I couldn't do a thing to harm him.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

steps forward, reacting to whistle, looking off CR for train.

LONG SHOT - PLATFORM

from Martins' eye line and train moving out in cloud of steam.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking L for Martins

LONG SHOT - WINDOW

from Anna's eye line. The steam covers it as train goes out.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CR. Music starts.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Anna, CAMERA PANNING RL with him as he
moves across.

                         MARTINS
            Oh, Anna, why do we always have to...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking ahead of her. She tears her passport in two. Martins
enters from CR and leans on bar in b.g.

                         MARTINS
            ...quarrel?

                         ANNA
            If you want to sell your service,
            I'm not willing to be the price...
            I loved him. You loved him. What
            good have we done him. Look at
            yourself, they have names for faces
            like that.

She turns away and exits CL. CAMERA TRACKS IN to CLOSEUP of
Martins as he looks after her.

CLOSE SHOT

doors of the buffet swinging to and fro after the departed
Anna. CAMERA PANS DOWN to his coat, lying just inside the
doors in a discarded heap. Music stops.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

running up stairs of International Police Headquarters.
CAMERA PANS with him RL. He passes International Patrol
coming down CR side.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

opens door to Calloway's office. CAMERA TRACKS IN as he
enters, revealing Calloway and another officer CL of him --
followed by Paine coming to door.

                         MARTINS
            Calloway!

                         CALLOWAY
            Oh, there you are. Come in here,
            there isn't much time.

Martins moves upstage to them and stands center.

                         MARTINS
            I want to get a plane out of here
            tonight.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE AND CALLOWAY

CR, looking off L for Martins. They walk forward.

                         CALLOWAY
            So she talked you out of it?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CR for Calloway. He is holding the two pieces of
Anna's passport.

                         MARTINS
            She gave me these.

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA'S TORN PASSPORT

as Martins throws it down on desk from CL.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

walking downstage RL, CAMERA PANNING with him. Paine enters
from CR, following him, then is lost out of picture. Martins
is revealed CL.

                         CALLOWAY
            A girl of spirit.

                         MARTINS
            She's right. It's none of my business.

Martins crosses picture LR and exits CR, holding Calloway in
CS.

                         CALLOWAY
            It won't make any difference - in
            the long run. I'll get him.

Martins re-enters from CR, crossing screen RL.

                         MARTINS
            I won't have helped.

Calloway moves away LR, CAMERA PANNING with him and losing
Martins.

                         CALLOWAY
            That will be a fine boast to make.
            Well, I always wanted you to catch
            that plane.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off R for Calloway.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Didn't I?

                         MARTINS
            You all did.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off L for Martins - he starts to move away.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'd better see if there's anyone
            still at the terminus. You may need
            a priority.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CL and Calloway driving in the open jeep with Paine -
traveling downstage LR.

                         CALLOWAY
            Do you mind if I drop off somewhere
            on the way? I've got an appointment,
            won't take five minutes...

                         MARTINS
            Of course.

                         CALLOWAY
            Why don't you come in, too - you're
            a writer... Might interest you.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY AND MARTINS

entering ward of children's hospital from door CR, past nun
nurse. CAMERA TRACKS RL with them as they make their way
along the ward between the cots.

                         CALLOWAY
            This is the biggest children's
            hospital in Vienna. All the kids in
            here are the result of Lime's
            penicillin racket...

Martins exits CL. Music starts.

LONG SHOT

through surgical trolley of the ward, Calloway and Martins
walking along between the cots, nursing nun CL of them.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

over the rail at end of cot, looks down CR off for the
occupant. CAMERA TRACKS RL with him as he continues to next
bed.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

with nun CL of him - bending over cot. He is looking off R
for Martins.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking down off R at occupant of cot. Calloway comes down
to his L side, coming into picture from behind him, CR.
CAMERA PANS L slightly as he also looks into cot, CL.

                         CALLOWAY
            It had meningitis.

CLOSE SHOT - NUN

leaning over cot rail, CR, shaking thermometer.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            They gave it some of Lime's
            penicillin.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

with Martins CR, still looking down into cot. CAMERA IS
TILTED SLIGHTLY.

                         CALLOWAY
            Terrible pity, isn't it.

LONG SHOT

through surgical trolley - two nursing nuns CL - Martins
looking into CR row of cots. Calloway crosses RL to cot -
Martins follows.

CLOSE SHOT - NURSING NUN

giving oxygen to child in cot, out of picture below frame.
Oxygen cylinder in R f.g., operated by nun off R.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR in R profile.

CLOSE SHOT - TWO NUNS

attending bed - one behind screen CL - another in L profile
R f.g. - the latter moves across RL with bowl of surgical
swabs.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR to cot. He turns his head to look off L.
CLOSEUP - TEMPERATURE CHART

on desk being filled in by the hand of a nursing nun.

MED. SHOT - NURSING NUN

hanging up temperature chart CR head of cot - off. She drops
woolly toy from LH to bedside table shelf CL of her, as she
turns away and CAMERA PANS DOWN TO HOLD basket of toys in CS.

CLOSE SHOT - TEDDY BEAR

lying face down on shelf.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

CL of Paine who is driving open jeep. Calloway seated in the
back. Traveling downstage LR. CAMERA TRACKS IN to CS of
Martins and Calloway as Calloway leans forward - Paine now
tipping R edge of frames.

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine lent me one of your books;
            "Oklahoma Kid," I think it was.
            Read a bit of it... Think it's
            pretty good. What made you take up
            this sort of thing? Been doing it
            for long?

                         MARTINS
            All right, Calloway. You win.

                         CALLOWAY
            I never knew there were snake
            charmers in Texas...

                         MARTINS
            I said you win.

                         CALLOWAY
            Win what?

                         MARTINS
            I'll be your dumb decoy duck.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

LONG SHOT - CAFE MARC AUREL

its awning down. It is dark outside.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

through window of cafe, seated at table, looking out off R.

LONG SHOT - STREET

outside cafe from Martins' eye line, CAMERA TRACKING RL
along it. It is empty.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

leaning sideways in his chair, looking off close to entrance
of building CL.

LONG SHOT - DESERTED STREET

outside cafe from Martins' eye line.

MED. SHOT - POLICEMAN

standing above fountain from Martins' eye line.

LONG SHOT - DESERTED STREET

glistening pavements - from his eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - POLICEMAN

in profile, looking off CL.

LONG SHOT - DESERTED STREET

from his eye line - CAMERA TILTED.

CLOSEUP - POLICEMAN

looking off CL in L profile.

LONG SHOT - NARROW ALLEYWAY

deserted from his eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - ANOTHER POLICEMAN

full face, looking off CL.

LONG SHOT - DARK AND DESERTED STREET

approaching cafe, from his eye line.

CLOSEUP - POLICEMAN

looking off CL.

LONG SHOT - STREET

deserted from his eye line.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

through window of cafe, seated at table with cup of coffee
in front of him.

LONG SHOT - POLICEMAN

on steps of fountain, looking down CL.

LONG SHOT - THE SQUARE

which is deserted. Round the corner in far CL b.g., the
shadow of a man appears on the wall.

LONG SHOT - POLICEMAN

on fountain, looking down off R. CAMERA CRANES DOWN,
revealing Calloway. Paine comes out of shadow of fountain to
stand CL of him.

                         POLICEMAN
            Psst!

                         CALLOWAY
            Paine!...

LONG SHOT - THE SQUARE

with the man's shadow moving LR along wall at far CL corner.

CLOSEUP - POLICEMAN

looking CR.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated at table in cafe. He turns to his L and looks off CR,
into the street.

LONG SHOT - THE SQUARE

shadow still moving along the building. A man comes into
picture LR in far b.g. and starts to walk across the square.

MED. SHOT - PAINE AND CALLOWAY

in shadow of fountain, they step back into deeper shadow.

CLOSEUP - POLICEMAN

looking off CR, then CL.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

through window of cafe, looking off CR. He leans back onto
table.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

with Paine CL of him. A policeman moves into L profile in R
profile in CU. They all look CL.

                         PAINE
            Look, sir!

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated at cafe table, in R profile. He turns his head to
look off L, reacting to sound of door opening.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

entering cafe door, RL from Martins' eye line. She leans
against CR wall in CS, looking off CR for Martins.

                         ANNA
            How much longer are you going to
            sit here?

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE AND CALLOWAY

CR of him.

                         PAINE
            Shall I go over there, sir?

                         CALLOWAY
            No, no. Leave them for a while.

Paine looks off R.

LONG SHOT - STREET

outside cafe, which is in far b.g. L. An old man carrying a
bunch of toy balloons enters from CR.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE AND CALLOWAY

he turns away.

LONG SHOT - THE BALLOON MAN

moving down the street very slowly with the aid of a stick -
toward camera.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

over Calloway's L shoulder - policeman tipping R edge of frame.

                         BALLOON MAN (O.S.)
            Wollen sie habe balloon?

Calloway turns to look over his L shoulder off L.

                         CALLOWAY
            Nein danke.

CLOSE SHOT - BALLOON MAN

looking off CR for Calloway.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

over Calloway's L shoulder. The latter turns in CU to look
off CL for balloon man.

                         BALLOON MAN (O.S.)
            Balloons?

                         CALLOWAY
            Vyter gehen fair schtangzel nicht?

                         PAINE
            Gehen sie weiter go on - scarper!

CLOSE SHOT - BALLOON MAN

looking off R for Calloway.

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

turns to look off CL for balloon man - Paine behind him.

                         BALLOON MAN (O.S.)
            Balloon, mein herr?

                         CALLOWAY
            Gehen sie weiter, bitte.

LONG SHOT - PAINE

steps forward to CS from shadow, looking off L for balloon
man and leans forward and a balloon is handed in to him from
off L.

He starts to move back again to Calloway - then calls back
over his shoulder off L.

                         PAINE
            Nur einen. Come on schnell, schnell.
            All right, only one. Scarper!

CLOSE SHOT - BALLOON MAN

turns away to exit CL.

LONG SHOT

the top of a derelict bombed building. CAMERA IS TILTED.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

comes round top of corner of derelict building. He is
smoking. He stops, looking down off R.

LONG SHOT - THE SQUARE BELOW

from Harry's eye line. Two horses and carriages seen below.
CAMERA PANS RL, then TRACKS IN as the cafe is revealed below.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

seated at table in window of cafe in R profile. Anna in R f.g.

                         MARTINS
            You should have gone. How did you
            know I was here...

CLOSE SHOT - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins. She is leaning on the bar of the
cafe. CAMERA PANS LR as she moves to center of room.

                         MARTINS
            ...anyway?

                         ANNA
            From Kurtz. They have just been
            arrested. But Harry won't come,
            he's not a fool.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

CL and Calloway looking off past CL for the cafe.

                         CALLOWAY
            Yes, Paine, slip over there. See
            what she is up to.

Paine moves to exit.

                         PAINE
            Right, sir.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - BACK DOOR OF THE CAFE

CAMERA TILTED at AN ANGLE R. It opens slightly and Harry
comes in.

                         ANNA
            You can't tell me you're doing all
            this for nothing.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins.

                         ANNA
            What is your price this time?

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

seated at table in R profile.

                         MARTINS
            No price.

CLOSEUP - ANNA

looking off CL for Martins. She steps back.

                         ANNA
            Honest, sensible, sober, harmless
            Holly Martins...Holly, what a silly
            name...

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

comes through door, looking off CL for Martins and Anna -
the CAMERA TILTED. He reacts to what Anna is saying.

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            You must feel very proud to be a
            police informer.

MED. SHOT - ANNA

turns and catches sight of Harry off CR, Martins unaware,
seated behind her in R profile at the table. CAMERA PANS L
with her as she moves to lean both hands on table CL and
calls off frantically to Harry.

                         ANNA
            Harry, get away!

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CL takes out gun.

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            The police are outside.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

at table, looks up off CR and gets up out of picture LR.

                         ANNA (O.S.)
            Quick!

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

gun in hand, looking off L for Martins - he gestures to Anna
to get out of the way.

                         HARRY
            Anna!

MED. SHOT - PAINE

reaches front entrance of cafe and moves to door.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

turns away to his R, toward door - he runs out of it and up
steps. Door opening to back of hinge (already unclasped).

MED. SHOT - PAINE

turns and runs out of door of cafe again, back to camera and
outside - calls off R.

                         PAINE
            Sir!

Music stops.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

making his way over pile of rubble at back of cafe,
downstage LR, CAMERA PANNING with him. Sound of police
whistle. He exits CR.

                         PAINE
            The back, the back!

LONG SHOT - HIGH PILE OF RUBBLE

some soldiers making their way over the top of it RL.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

CAMERA PANS RL with him, he looks down off L, then starts
down slope, exiting CL.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

running down slope of rubble, back to camera exiting CL.

LONG SHOT - POLICE

running in from R f.g. and on upstage.

LONG SHOT - NARROW STREET

Harry running upstage in far b.g. and exiting CL.

LONG SHOT - STEPS

outside a church - soldier running down them RL, led by
Paine and Martins who exit CL.

LONG SHOT - SQUARE

Harry running down stage LR. He gets down on hands and knees
and opens manhole - takes off hat and climbs down inside.

LONG SHOT - POLICEMEN

running along arched passage, toward camera.

LONG SHOT - SQUARE MANHOLE

open in f.g, Policeman enters at run from CR and starts down
it. Paine is seen running down to it from b.g. with Calloway
behind him.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

inside sewer, running along the gallery, over the overflow
RL. He exits CL. Sound of running water over entire into
sewer sequence starts.

CLOSE SHOT - POLICEMEN

running down spiral stairs, followed by Paine and Calloway.

LONG SHOT

over water overflow in f.g. to gallery over it. Calloway and
Paine enter from CR.

LONG SHOT

overflow and sluice below - Harry seen close to side of
doorway, leading on into sewer from CL. He disappears
through upstage.

LONG SHOT - CALLOWAY, PAINE AND MARTINS

making their way round gallery over water overflow.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

back to wall, looking off CR.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

CAMERA TILTED. Calloway leading Martins and Paine, comes
toward camera.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

moves away quickly CL, CAMERA PANNING with him and revealing
the rest of the tunnel, water running through the center of it.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

looking off R, Paine behind him. He exits Cl, followed by
Paine and Martins.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

disappearing at far end of long sewer tunnel.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

comes into picture through tunnel from CL, looks off L.

LONG SHOT - CALLOWAY, PAINE AND MARTINS

making their way along CL side of sewer tunnel. Calloway
backs up close to wall, CAMERA PANNING RL with him - the
other two follow suit.

LONG SHOT

sewer from Calloway's eye line. Harry is nowhere in sight.
LONG SHOT - MARTINS

splashing his way through water in center of the tunnel, LR.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Martins - get back!

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY AND PAINE

CR of him.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

in the center of the tunnel. CAMERA PANS RL with him as he
splashes through water and exits CL to Calloway. One
policeman seen on far side of tunnel close to wall.

LONG SHOT - STREET ABOVE THE SEWER

A police wagon comes into picture and draws up CR. A number
of police get out and run downstage toward camera. A tram
passes in b.g.

                         POLICE
            Drei mann unten in Donanskanal.
            Verkrochen!

They open manhole in f.g. and start down it.

CLOSE SHOT - MAN

running down steps of sewer, entering from R f.g. Sound of
rushing water starts, carried over entire interior sewer scene.

LONG SHOT - THREE POLICEMEN

at manhole in street. Tram noise - no water noise on this
cut. Policemen snouting instructions in German inaudible
above tram noise.

LONG SHOT - SEWER

Police entering from L foreground into tunnel, CAMERA
PANNING LR. Water noise continues.

LONG SHOT

tunnel with water rushing through from policeman's eye
line - the light moves round it. It is deserted.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

with lamp - shining it round tunnel.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

with water running through - light at far end.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

full face against the wall, he runs away upstage RL, CAMERA
PANNING with him to center of tunnel.

                         POLICEMAN
            Los!

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY AND MARTINS

The former exits CL. Martins is about to follow.

LONG SHOT

empty tunnel with Harry seen in very LONG SHOT at far end,
Calloway at a run from CR. Paine and Martins following.

MED. SHOT

narrow tunnel - Harry enters from CR - runs downstage,
CAMERA PANS RL as he dodges behind corner in f.g.

LONG SHOT

dark tunnel light at far end, and storm troop police coming
into view at far end, shining a light.

                         POLICEMAN
            ...Halt!

Remainder of shouts indistinguishable.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

at corner of sewer. CAMERA PANS RL with him as he turns,
revealing another tunnel.

                         POLICEMAN (O.S.)
            Stehen...bleiben oder ich schisse.
            Bleib hier ich lauf hinunter.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

running upstage, back to camera, along dark passage. He
exits at end, upstairs, CL.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

looking up off CL.

LONG SHOT - POLICE

in square, opening manhole to sewer. No water noise over
this cut. Noise of tram.

LONG SHOT - FROM LOW ANGLE

Harry enters from CR f.g., stops CR side of passage. He is
stooping and bending to pass under very low tunnel.

LONG SHOT - POLICE

in square, going down manhole. Other police on ground level
about to follow. No water noise on this cut.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

stooping in low tunnel - looking off past CR.

LONG SHOT - SEWER POLICE

moving along the passageway RL.

LONG SHOT - SEWER POLICE

carrying lighted torches going through archway from main
tunnel, into narrow side tunnel. They move down stage to CS,
looking off R.

LONG SHOT

opposite side of end tunnel - policeman's shadow on archway
of opposite wall - otherwise deserted - from policeman's eye
line.

                         POLICEMAN (O.S.)
            Hier ist nichts los toter...

CLOSE SHOT - POLICEMAN

holding torch and revolver, looking back over his shoulder
to police behind him.

                         POLICEMAN
            Gang gehen richtung stadtpark.

They turn and go.

LONG SHOT

through archway of sewer police making their way along main
tunnel - backs to camera. They turn and start back again,
toward camera.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off past CR - he is crouched in tunnel. Sound of
distant shouts.

MED. SHOT

gallery round water overflow and main sewer. Sewer police
with flaming torches enter from CR, moving RL.

LONG SHOT

water overflow in L f.g., falling down over wall into sewer
from police eye line.

MED. SHOT

large round hole in wall, leading to a tunnel. A policeman's
head, looking off CL.

LONG SHOT

empty main sewer tunnel from policeman's eye line.

LONG SHOT

SHOOTING UP over overflow fall in R f.g. - Harry is seen
peeping round CR corner of gallery.

LONG SHOT

sewer police coming through round hole in wall, leading to
branching tunnel - to main tunnel. They move upstage LR. A
policeman speaks in German but it is unintelligible.

LONG SHOT

over overlow fall in R f.g., to tne gallery above. Harry is
seen peeping round corner in R b.g., disappears behind it LR
again. German police instructions are being shouted but not
intelligible.

LONG SHOT - SEWER POLICE

moving RL along tunnel - carrying torches. German shouts -
unintelligible.

CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

shining lamp off CR.

LONG SHOT

from policeman's eye line of tunnel as he shines torch into it.

CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

looking off CL.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

with policeman's light shining on it, moving round - CAMERA
TILTED.

CLOSE SHOT - SHOCK TROOPER

looking off CR, small machine gun in hand.

LONG SHOT

the sewer from policeman's eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

looking off CL.

LONG SHOT - SEWER POLICE

climbing down wall ladder inside sewer, carrying torches.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

at foot of ladder, shining torch off CR - others coming down
ladder into picture, CR. CAMERA PANS L with him as he moves
along the wall RL, shining torch.

LONG SHOT

dark tunnel from policeman's eye line. It is deserted. Sound
of disturbed stone.

CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICEMAN

looking off CL.

CLOSE SHOT

another sewer policeman holding lamp (which is off) looking
off CL.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

from policeman's eye line.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - TWO SEWER POLICEMAN

Sound of a disturbed stone.

                         POLICEMAN
            Licht!

VERY LONG SHOT

of the tunnel and light being shone down on it from far end.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

with light shining on him - back to camera - feet splashing
through water.

CLOSEUP - SEWER POLICEMAN

looking off CR for Harry.

CLOSE SHOT - STORM TROOPER

with machine gun, exits CR. Police whistle.

CLOSEUP - SEWER POLICEMAN

moving out of picture CR. Police whistle.

LONG SHOT - DARK TUNNEL

Harry exits at a run past CL. In the b.g. light shone by
policemen is moving rapidly downstage. Police whistle.

                         POLICE
            Halt - stehen - bleiben oder wir
            schissen! Halt - stehen - bleiben
            oder wir schisson!

LONG SHOT - HARRY

climbing over the rail of a small gallery and down ladder,
to camera.

LONG SHOT - POLICE

running along the tunnel, shining light. They move to exit CL.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

running along, close to the wall of the tunnel, RL. CAMERA
CRANES UP with him as he runs up staircase in L of picture -
RL - then reaching the landing, continues on up a wall
ladder in CS.

LONG SHOT - SEWER POLICE

opening flaps of manhole - from Harry's eye line - and
looking down.
                         POLICEMAN
            Rasch, rasch. Zwei mann alserbach,
            zwei mann schotterfang rechts hinaber.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

CAMERA PANS DOWN with Harry as he climbs down again. He runs
to corner of tunnel, downstage into CU, then turns the
corner and runs upstage, back to camera, moving to exit, CL.

LONG SHOT

across overflow in R f.g. to gallery above it. Harry comes
into picture on the gallery from CR, looks off L, then
starts to climb over the gallery rail.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY'S FEET

dropping into picture from above - they reach ground - and
CAMERA PANS LR with his feet as they move upstage through
water in tunnel, until he is wholly revealed in LS, running
away upstage, back to camera.

CLOSE SHOT - SEWER POLICE

enter from CR, moving upstage, backs to camera.

LONG SHOT - POLICE

moving along the tunnel. Smaller tunnels branching off CR.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

enters from CR f.g. and reacting to shouts, looks back over
his shoulder off R.

                         POLICEMAN
            Franz da geh' riber.

LONG SHOT - THE WATERFALL

tunnels in background. Sewer police slide down it on rope
RL, CAMERA PANNING DOWN with the firestone to the bottom
two, others slide into picture down the rope, and they start
off upstage.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

with gallery over it. Harry comes into picture at top of
same CL - running LR. In the tunnel underneath, we see sewer
police, moving downstage to camera.

Harry reaches corner of staircase, down to tunnel, reacts to
sound of footsteps and we:

                                            CUT TO:

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

at corner of stairs, looking down. He moves LR, CAMERA
PANNING with him and he presses himself against the side of
the wall adjoining the gallery. The police with flares are
seen down below. CAMERA PANS RL with him as he darts once
more to corner of steps.

LONG SHOT

top of the small gallery where we have just seen Harry -
storm troopers coming through doorway CR - and below Harry
running away through lower archway, upstage, back to camera.

MED. SHOT - THE SPIRAL STAIRCASE

Harry enters from CL - running up the stairs, back to camera
RL.

MED. SHOT - TWO STORM TROOPERS

with an Alsatian looking down manhole from Harry's eye line.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

looking up off L for police. He turns and exits CR.

MED. SHOT - TWO STORM TROOPERS

and dog looking down into manhole from Harry's eye line.

LONG SHOT

along the narrow tunnel. Harry seen in main sewer, running
to camera.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CL in L profile - he stops in f.g. panting.
Sound of distorted echoing voices.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

in center of main sewer - deserted. He is looking round him.

CLOSE SHOT

empty doorway in tunnel- CAMERA TILTED L from Harry's eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

in L profile, looking off CL and around him.

CLOSE SHOT - TWO DOORWAYS

from Harry's eye line - into main tunnel.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

in R profile, looking around him.

CLOSE SHOT

dark and empty doorway into main sewer from Harry's eye
line - CAMERA TILTED.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

in L profile, looking around him.

CLOSE SHOT

two more deserted doorways leading into other tunnels from
Harry's eye line.

MED. SHOT

deserted passage from Harry's eye line.

MED. SHOT

round hole leading into main sewer from Harry's eye line.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking round him to L and R.

                         POLICE
            Halt da ismer.........
                   (remainder unintelligible)


LONG SHOT

the main tunnel of the sewer - Harry standlng alone in the
center of it. Harry runs to an arch and exits CR through it.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

in tunnel, looking off CL.

LONG SHOT

tunnel - Harry climbs down ladder against wall CL into
another tunnel.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL.

                         MARTINS
            Harry!

LONG SHOT

of the tunnel wlth Harry just dropping off iron steps CAMERA
L, and running upstage back to camera. He falls against the
CR side of the wall for cover.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

falling back against the wall, looking off CL for Martins,
then over his shoulder upstage for flight of steps seen in b.g.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

looking off CL for Harry - he also falls back against wall CL.

                         HARRY (O.S.)
            Is that you?

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

back to wall, looking over shoulder for steps in b.g.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            You're through, Harry!

LONG SHOT - SPIRAL STEPS

from Harry's eye line.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            Come out! You haven't got a chance...

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking off CR for Martins.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            ...this way.

                         HARRY
            What do you want?

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

revolver in hand looking back over his R shoulder, off CL.
He exits CL.

                         MARTINS (O.S.)
            You might as well give up.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

pressed close to wall, looking over his shoulders to steps -
then off CR for Martins.

LONG SHOT - PAINE

running along the CR side of the tunnel to camera.

                         PAINE
            Mr. Martins, sir, get back!

CLOSEUP - CALLOWAY

looking off CL.

                         PAINE (O.S.)
            Get back!

LONG SHOT - PAINE

running down passage, followed by Calloway in far b.g. He
runs down into MS, looking off.

                         PAINE
            Keep back sir, come back!

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

holding revolver - shoots off.

                         PAINE (O.S.)
            Hurry, come back, sir!

MED. CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

followed by Calloway moving downstage RL, revolver in hand.
He stops in f.g., then slowly crumpling up, falls forward.
You hear the splashing of water.

MED. SHOT - PAINE

falls to ground in f.g.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CL against wall - exits CR.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

moves away from wall, exiting CL.

LONG SHOT

along dark tunnel - Harry comes into picture from CL, running.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

steps from shadow in tunnel, firing off R with revolver.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

at far end of tunnel, back to camera, staggers. He falls.
Revolver report - sound of saw starts.

CLOSE SHOT - PAINE

doubled up on the ground in f.g. Calloway comes to him from
CR and Martins from CL. They turn him over, and Calloway
starts to undo his collar.

LONG SHOT - HARRY

at foot of iron staircase, crawling along the ground toward
them.

MED. CLOSE SHOT

down the spiral stairs, Harry crawling up them, slowly and
painfully.

LONG SHOT

from Harry's eye line of the grille at the top of the stairs
to the street.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

crawling up the stairs toward camera.

CLOSE SHOT

through iron steps - Harry's face as he crawls up staircase.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS AND CALLOWAY

bending over Paine's body.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

climbing on all fours, slowly up the stairs, looking up off
R for the top.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - GRILLE

at top of stairs from Harry's eye line.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

making his way to top of stairs.

CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

bending over Paine's body - he takes his gun from his hand
and gets up. Calloway in R f.g.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

through the iron steps as he crawls to top.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

walking along tunnel, back to camera.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

climbing up into picture on the stairs from CL - he reaches
up for the grille above him.

LONG SHOT - THE STREET

immediately above the grille. Harry's hands coming up into
picture through the top, groping to get a hold.

CLOSEUP - HARRY

looking up, off CR, the light from the street above shining
on his face.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

coming round corner of tunnel from CR, looking off R for Harry.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

reaching up to the grille, above his head again.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY'S HANDS

in f.g., coming through the grille above ground and groping
to get a hold. His hands grope in the air for a moment, then
disappear below ground again.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

collapses at the top of the stairs and is still, his head
buried in his arms.

MED. CLOSE SHOT - MARTINS

gun in hand, looking off CR for Harry. He moves forward into
CU, light falling onto his face..

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

collapsed on the stairs, looking from the corner of his eye
for the approach of Martins off L.

MED. SHOT - CALLOWAY

gets to his feet from beside Paine's body - CAMERA PANS UP
with him - he looks off CR and calls.

                         CALLOWAY
            Martins!

Sewer police move up in b.g. He exits CL.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

lying on the stairs, looking up stealthily through crook of
arm off L for Martins - gun in hand.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            Be careful, Martins!

LONG SHOT - CALLOWAY

gun in hand, making his way along CL side of tunnel.

                         CALLOWAY
            Don't take any chances.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

looking through crook of arm, off L. He raises head.

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            If you see him, shoot.

Sound of music.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off CR for Harry.

CLOSE SHOT - HARRY

on the stairs, looking off L for Martins.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

looking off R for Harry.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

walking downstage, along the tunnel to camera RL. You hear
the report of revolver - music stops - saw stops.

LONG SHOT - TUNNEL

from Calloway's eye line. At the far end in VERY LS, Martins
comes into picture, walking slowly downstage.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

MED. SHOT - PRIEST

with graveyard attendant and his assistant beside him.

                         PRIEST
            Herr gib ihnen die ewige ruh und
            das ewige licht leutche ihnen. Herr
            lass sie ruhen in frieden. Amen. In
            namen des vaters des sohnes und des
            heiligen geistes. Amen.

He sprinkles spoonful of soil on the grave, then moves to
exit CR. Music starts.

MED. SHOT - MARTINS

CL f.g. - Anna facing the new grave. She takes spoon of
earth from graveyard attendant and sprinkles it on grave -
moving to exit CR.

CLOSEUP - MARTINS

Calloway walks up to him from behind.

LONG SHOT - THE GRAVEYARD

with Harry's new grave in f.g. Martins CL - Calloway's back
to camera. They move downstage - Martins replacing his hat.

LONG SHOT - ROAD

CR of the graveyard, Anna walking upstage, back to camera.
She exits CR.

MED. LONG SHOT - JEEP

in R f.g. Calloway enters it RL. Martins walks round the
back of it, looking at watch - then off CL, after the
departing Anna.

                         CALLOWAY
            What time is it?

                         MARTINS
            Two thirty.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

walking upstage, back to camera.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

seated in R profile in jeep - Martins gets in LR, beside him.
The jeep drives out CR.

                         CALLOWAY
            I'll have to step on it, if you're
            going to catch that plane.

CLOSE TWO SHOT - MARTINS

CL and Calloway CR - riding in the open jeep LR. CAMERA
TRACKS IN to single CU of Martins looking off R for Calloway.
He looks back over his shoulder.

                         MARTINS
            Calloway, can't you do something
            about Anna?

                         CALLOWAY (O.S.)
            I'll do what I can, if she'll let me.

LONG SHOT - ANNA

walking along the street - CAMERA DOLLYING BACK as from
Martins' eye line in jeep. She gets further and further away.

CLOSE TWO SHOT - MARTINS AND CALLOWAY

seated in jeep, driving RL.

                         MARTINS
            Wait a minute - let me out.

                         CALLOWAY
            Well, there's not much time.

                         MARTINS
            One can't just leave - please.

MED. SHOT - JEEP

drives up to curb LR - Martins climbs out near side to
camera and CAMERA PANS RL as he moves to back of jeep and
takes out his grip and turns away to exit CL. We HOLD
Calloway in back of jeep, looking after him.

                         CALLOWAY
            Be sensible, Martins.

                         MARTINS
            I haven't got a sensible name,
            Calloway.

LONG SHOT

along the avenue of trees, Anna in far b.g., walking
downstage. Martins enters from CR f.g., moving upstage, back
to camera. He puts down his grip on a cart in L f.g. and
stands waiting.

CLOSE SHOT - CALLOWAY

in jeep looking back over his shoulder off L for Martins. He
starts to drive away upstage.

LONG SHOT - MARTINS

in L f.g., Anna in the middle of the road, coming downstage
toward camera. She passes Martins without a glance, and
continues on, looking straight ahead of her and out of
picture CR - Martins takes out a cigarette and lights it.

                                            FADE OUT

                           THE END


