THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR
 
 
 
A screenplay by
 
ÓAARON GOLDBERG
October, 1999
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
bomb the suburbs inc.FIRST DRAFT
            9/16 Mitford st.Started : October 2,1999
            St. Kilda, 3182
            Ph: 9537-2765Completed : December 14, 1999
              
    
 


"THE HOUSE NEXT DOOR"
1.  int  trendy clothes shop                day     1.
 
THUY QUAY is a young Asian lady. Shes funky and fresh looking, and has an 
exotic but assured charm about her, as well as a lurking cynicism. Shes on her 
shift working in the trendy clothes store DANGERFIELD. Shes behind the counter, 
when two young teenage girls come into the store. The girls are dressed in a 
trendy club style. They idly look through the racks checking out all the fresh 
styles, looking for some clothes that will make their day. THUY approaches them 
slowly, smiling at them as they look through the racks.
 
cath
Check this stuff out Jen.
 
jen
(vaguely interested) Yeah, looks alright.
 
THUY approaches them, giving them a kind and reassuring smile. Both girls look 
at THUY and are startled by her fresh, funky sensual look. They seem challenged 
by her style, and quickly go back to scanning the racks in an attempt to match 
it. JEN pulls out a skirt, and inspects it.
 
THUY
Thats a great looking skirt.
 
The girls look at each other and then back at THUY, and then pull faces and 
shake their heads.
 
JEN
Na. Not my style.
 
THUY smiles approvingly, keeping the customers satisfied, as they rifle through 
the racks. JEN selects another piece of clothing, this time something tacky and 
totally inappropriate. THUY looks back at them, offering more help.
 
THUY
You can try that one on if you want.
1.    ContD                                                           1.
JEN
OK.
 
JEN takes the pants in her hand, as if she already owns them.
 
THUY
The changing room is just down the end there, near the hat rack.
 
CATH looks back at her friend, and giggles again, making THUY feels a little 
uncomfortable, making her feel like a stupid shop assistant.
 
THUY
If you need any help, with sizes and stuff, just tell me. Okay?
 
CATH
She knows what she wants. Thanks.
 
CATH gives her a cheesy smile. THUY smiles back, and quickly frowns, which makes 
her a bit shitty. THUY walks back to the counter, as the girls go to the 
change-room.
 
THUY
(to herself) Little private-school brats.
 
THUY takes out a pop magazine, and idly flicks through the pages.
 
2. INT  CHANGE-ROOM                               DAY  2.
 
The girls giggle and mutter amongst themselves inside the change room.
 
CATH
Hows it look?
2.   contd                                                 2.
 
JEN
Hang on. Im still putting it on.
 
CATH
Davell love it when he sees it.
 
CATH looks at some hats, when JEN comes out, looking goofy and ridiculous. 
 
CATH
Aw sick!
 
THUY looks up and sees a fashion abortion happening. She puts down her magazine, 
and comes to the girls rescue.
 
 
THUY
Try this one - itll drive Dave nuts.
 
She pulls out a cool tube skirt, a real arse hugger, and hands it to JEN, who 
takes it, albeit a bit hesitantly.
 
JEN
You dont stock that Scanlon and Theodore stuff here do you?
 
THUY hands JEN the dress.
THUY
Not this week. This is better - Jennifer Hardwick.
 
JEN takes the dress, but gives THUY a bit of a look. Shes been outclassed. CATH 
notices this too, and rolls her eyes condescendingly.
 
THUY
Dave will die over this one.
2.    contd                                                2.
 
JEN smiles cheezily at her, and goes back to the change room, as THUY is left 
with CATH
 
CATH
The girl has NO idea.
 
THUY gives CATH a knowing smile, as JEN fiddles around in the change room. Her 
pants drop to the floor, her legs slip through the skirt.
 
JEN
(from behind the door) Wooooooo!
 
JEN emerges from the change room looking hot. The dress fits her perfectly, 
giving her a sexy, slinky look.
 
CATH
That looks great!
 
THUY smiles at both of them, satisfied. CATH lunges for the racks, she wants one 
too. THUY, sensing a double sale, quickly assists her. She picks out the same 
dress, just a different size.
 
THUY
Try this one.
 
CATH takes the dress, and runs to the change room, puts it on quickly, and comes 
out. She looks good, but not as good as JEN. 
 
CATH
A perfect match!
 
They both head back into the change-rooms, and put on their original clothes. 
THUY heads back to the counter, awaiting their transaction, as the girls 
approach, they are oblivious of THUY, more interested in their exceptional 
choice of clothing.
 
2.    contd                                                      2.
 
JEN
You see, I always know whats cool.
 
CATH
Hey, I had the eye!
 
The girls hand their items to THUY, who checks the prices into the electronic 
register.
 
 
 
THUY
Thats eighty-five each. You paying cash? EFTPOS.
 
JEN, fumbles with her backpack, and pulls out her purse, and EFTPOS card. CATH, 
fumbles with hers.
 
JEN
EFTPOS
 
THUY takes her card and swipes it. Then fiddles with the EFTPOS machine.
 
THUY
Savings?
 
JEN nods approvingly, as THUY fiddles with the machine, and waits for the 
transaction to complete. She looks over at CATH, who embarrassed, smiles and 
hands THUY her card.
 
CATH
Im the same.
 
THUY takes the card and completes CATHS transaction. She bags the skirts and 
hands it to the girls, who are beaming proudly. THUY smiles back even prouder.
 
2.     contd                                      2.
 
THUY
Have a great night girls!
 
The girls giggle as they leave the store. THUY breathes a huge sigh of relief as 
they leave, when suddenly the phone rings. She picks it up.
 
THUY
Dangerfield.
 
PHONE CALLER
Hi T, its me
 
THUY
Fuck off Terry.
 
THUY slams the phone down, and takes a second to compose herself. When she looks 
up, there is a miserable looking teenage girl looking at her, awaiting her 
assistance. THUY instinctively flashes her a winning smile.
 
THUY
Hi! May I help you?
 
3. EXT  suburban street                            DAY  3.
 
A young guy, no older than seventeen, is skateboarding down a suburban street. 
He takes long steps with the board, building a deadly speed as he scoots along 
the concrete footpath. Its TERRY McKENNA, the sounds of his world blocked out by 
the pumping music through his Discman. Its a blistering hot day today, and the 
streets are relatively empty. TERRY expertly launches himself off the curve, and 
starts to sail down the street itself, weaving down the road like a slalom 
skier, the music giving him a purpose and rhythm as he glides effortlessly down 
the street,owning it! Suddenly a car looms in front of him, but TERRY is all 
rhythm and feel, he instinctively swerves back onto the footpath, pulling a mean 
olly, as hes back on the footpath again, towards his destination, the local 
bottle shop. He glides past two very cute girls, decked out in tight summer 
wear, and gives them a wolf-whistle. The girls respond with a giggle, strangely 
honored, as TERRY glides by, cool as fuck. The girls distract TERRY enough, that 
he nearly hits an old lady on the footpath in front of him. 
3. CONTD.                                                          3.
 
She turns lifting her handbag at him.
 
OLD LADY
You shouldnt be on the footpath!
 
TERRY is completely oblivious to this as he continues on his way. He screeches 
to a halt at the crossroads of Barkly and Mitford. People are walking along the 
street - he changes direction, up towards the bottle shop, slowly past the 7-11, 
the trendy boutique, and the trendy café - before he reaches his destination, 
the local bottle shop. He dismounts his board, tucks it under his arm. He slides 
his headphones off his neck, lifts his sunglasses and walks in.
 
4. INT  BOTTLE SHOP                             DAY      4.
TERRY scans the rack, completely oblivious to the fact that the attendant has 
sussed him out. He confidently steps toward to the counter.
 
TERRY
Slab of VB thanks.
 
The assistant looks at him silently for a moment, before breaking out into 
booming, condescending laughter. TERRY looks back at him.
 
TERRY
There a problem?
 
The attendant stops laughing, and suddenly turns serious.
 
AssistANT
ID mate.
 
TEERY shakes his head in bewilderment, and fumbles with his back pocket before 
pulling out a ratty piece of paper. He hands it to the ASSISTANT, who scans it, 
looks a TERRY again, then nods his approval.
 
ASSISTANT
Now what was it?
4.    contd                                                      4
 
TERRY
Slab of VB. Stubbies
 
The ASSISTANT walks back to the fridge and returns with a slab. He puts it on 
the counter.
 
ASSISTANT
Twenty-three fifty. Plus GST.
 
TERRY
Yeah.
 
TERRY fumbles in his pocket and hands the ASSISTANT the cash. TERRY walks out of 
the bottle shop, slab on his shoulder, skateboard under his arm, as the 
ASSISTANT shakes his head and smirks to himself.
 
ASSISTANT
Twenty-three, yeah right!
 
5. INT  TERRYS PARENTS HOUSE                   DAY        5.
 
TERRY barges in through the front door. Drops his skateboard in the hallway, and 
walks down it, his slab hoisted on his shoulder. Hes sweating and seems to be 
struggling a little as he carries the slab.
 
6. INT  TERRYS PARENTS HOUSE  TV ROOM           DAY      6.
 
TERRY barges through the door, slab on his shoulder. He startles his best buddy 
JOE RUDJOVIC, whos sprawled on the minimal style couch, watching the wrestling 
on cable TV. JOE is the same age as TERRY, has dark spiky hair with red tinted 
tips. In front of him is a coffee table, sprawled with empty pizza boxes, 
assorted magazines and a bong.
 
JOE
Fuckin beauty!
6. CONTD                                                              6.
 
TERRY
Its a fuckin cunt of a day out there. 
 
JOE
No hassles getting it?
 
TERRY
Bozo asked for ID. But I got em.
 
TERRY puts the slab down and rips the top open. Grabs a beer and throws one over 
to JOE. He takes one for himself, and takes the slab over to the fridge. He 
opens the fridge, seems daunted by the task.
 
TERRY
Shit, look at this.
 
JOE
What?
 
TERRY takes out some rotten food and bottles, scrunches his face in disgust, and 
holds the food a distance from his face by his fingertips, as if its some sort 
of toxic waste.
 
TERRY
Nothing.
 
TERRY continues to squash the beers into the fridge, and squeezes the door shut. 
He grabs his beer, has trouble unscrewing the top, and sits down on the couch 
next to JOE, he seems a little detached and upset. JOE notices this and tries to 
distract him.
 
JOE
Watch this fuckin malaka  Goldberg, the psycho Jew, hes awesome.
 
They watch the screen together. The Wrestler Goldberg is going nuts, smashing 
his opponent, working the crowd, driving them into a frenzy.
6.    CONTD                                                          6.
JOE
Goldberg! You fuckin crazy cunt!
 
Despite JOEs enthusiasm, TERRY doesnt seem so interested. JOE responds.
 
JOE
Its Thuy, isnt it?
 
TERRY
Nah.
 
JOE
Shes not coming?
 
TERRY
(lethargically)I dont know.
 
JOE
Relax man, itll be alright.
 
TERRY
(resignedly) Yeah. Whatever.
 
TERRY throws the bottle cap hes been holding across the room. It makes a 
plink as he sips on his stubby and watches the wrestling half interested. JOE 
is completely absorbed, he nudges TERRY
 
JOE
WATCH THIS!!
 
The boys watch semi-spellbound, as Goldberg delivers a remarkable skull crush on 
his opponent.
 
TERRY
Awesome!
 
 
7. INT  TERRYs PARENTS HOUSE                    NIGHT       7.
 
TEERY and JOE are sitting at the huge kitchen table. The house is very modern, 
and very upmarket, complete with all the latest mod-cons. TERRY is on the phone 
to his mate GEORGE.
 
TERRY
Its gonna go off. Suze Gleeson is coming and Patti Lombardo too. 
 
JOE
Ask him about Thuy.
 
TERRY nods, but motions for JOE to hang on.
 
TERRY
 You spoke to her? What did she say?
 
TERRYs mood changes. He seems upset, as he listens to the voice on the other 
end.
 
TERRY
Yeah. Yeah. I know. She hung up on me. She wont give me an inch. I know. I 
know. Im an arsehole. I fucked up. But Im trying man. You know? Maybe thisll 
fix things up. I can only try.
 
TERRY keeps nodding as he hears the voice on the other end. His mood starts to 
lift. Hes smiling a little.
 
TERRY
Yes. No. She wont talk. She likes you. You reckon? Cool. OKAY. Yeah.(beat) Can 
you get any ammo? Yeah? Nah. OKAY. Ill see you tommorow. Earlyish. About 
eleven. Yeah. Yeah. See you then. Itll rock buddy. Later.
7.    contd                                                         7.
 
TERRY switches off the phone. He swings his fist in victory, and a huge smile 
comes across his face. JOE looks at him quizzically.
 
TERRY
Shes coming!
 
JOE 
Told ya. What happened?
 
TERRY
George spoke to her. He explained to her how I felt. She said no, but she wasnt 
doing anything else. George was able to charm her into it.
 
jOE
What did he do?
 
TERRY
I dont know. He just spoke to her.
 
JOE
You see. Its gays mate. 
 
TERRY looks at him as if hes an idiot.
 
JOE
They understand chicks. Its like Mick said - a gay is a womans best friend.
 
 
TERRY
Good on you genius.
 
JOE is now laughing, he get up and gives his buddy a big pat on the back, and a 
nipple squeeze.
 
7.    contd                                                           7.
JOE
Still fuckin whinging huh! Fuck it. Lets celebrate!
 
JOE gets two more beers from the fridge, and hands one to TERRY. He grabs the 
mull-bowl and packs a bong.
 
JOE
To reconciliation!
 
TERRY
Enough with the fuckin genius thinking.
 
JOE
Ey! Chill man!
 
He hands TERRY the bong. TERRY starts to light it.
 
JOE
Heres to party of the century!
 
TEERY sucks the bong, and splutters mid-toke. JOE puts the open stubby into his 
hand, and knocks it against his in cheers.
 
JOE
But more importantly. 
 
JOE puts his arm around his mate and holds him close, looking him in the eye.
 
JOE
Heres to you (beat)
and Thuy.
 
8. INT  TERRYs parents house                   MORNING    8.
 
The TV is tuned at low volume to MTV, a video clip of some cheesy dance-pop 
artist flashing ACROSS THE SCREEN. Shoes and discarded clothes are strewn across 
the floor, as well as discarded.. 
8. CONTD                                                              8.
 
newspapers, some skateboard magazines, comics and pop-culture magazines. Theres 
a pile a video tapes on the large square coffee table, including some horror, 
scf-fi and porn titles. Theres a filthy ashtray full of butts, some empty 
stubbies and a half drunk bottle of tequila, as well as a bong filled with dirty 
water. TERRY and JOE are sprawled on separate couches, comatose. A dull overcast 
sunlight creeps into the room. Amidst the dull doof of the TV, can be heard 
the buzzing of the front doorbell. It continues, then stops. Then it starts 
pulsing again in an angry staccato rhythm, as if its trying to make some kind 
of morse code with the dead. Slowly the sound gets through TERRYs ears, and his 
eyes slowly open. He raises his intoxicated head, his eyes straining against the 
pure virgin sunlight in the room.
 
TERRY
Jesus!
 
He scratches his head, and looks around the room, he spots the Blue LED readout 
of the time on the VCR  10:15 am.
 
TERRY
Shit.
 
He looks over at JOE who is sprawled on the other couch, dead to the world, his 
mouth half open as he blissfully snores away. The doorbell keeps buzzing, as 
TERRY clumsily gets up.
 
TERRY
Yeah. Yeah. Fuckin settle.
 
TERRY slowly makes his way to the front door. Dressed only in a t-shirt and 
boxers, he scratches his arse. The doorbell is still buzzing as he makes his way 
to the front door. The sound is louder now. TERRY protests back at it.
 
TERRY
OKAY. OKAY! I hear ya!
 
TERRY opens the door, and there standing in front of his is THY, looking angry 
but ready. He looks back at her startled, and in an almost reflex mood covers 
the hole in his boxers. She looks back in disappointment, TERRY blushes. She 
walks in with authority, stomping down the hall to the TV room. TERRY, suddenly 
shocked out of his stupor follows her like an obedient puppy.
 
9. INT  TERRYs PARENTS HOUSE                   MORNING   9.
 
THUY stops at the entrance of the TV room, and sees the disaster before her. She 
looks around the room. TERRY is behind her, and by this stage hes putting his 
pants on. She looks back at TERRY angrily, shaking her head in disgust and 
disappointment.
 
THUY
I can see nothings changed with you.
 
TERRY
Please.
 
THUY
Youre still hanging around with your bum mates, smoking bongs, getting pissed, 
doing nothing..
 
She looks over the coffee table and sees a porno movie. She angrily picks it up. 
Looking at him accusingly
 
THUY
Youre pathetic.
 
TERRY looks back at her, shakes his head in denial, but stands his ground 
against her.
 
TERRY
Please. Thuy. That isnt the point.
 
THUY 
So what is it? Huh? I mean I dont have to waste my time with losers like you. 
 
By this stage JOE has emerged from his slumber. More like rudely awakened by 
THUY and TERRYS domestic. He starts to moan as THUY continues ripping into 
TERRY. 
9. contd                                                              9.
 
TERRY
I mean dont think me being here is supposed to mean anything..
 
JOE
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa..
 
THUY
You know Im here to be with George and Jess, not you two..
 
JOE
Aaaaaaaarrrrrrrrrrgggggghhhhhhhhhh!!!!
TERRY
Yeah, I know..I.
 
JOE
AAAAAAAAAAAAaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaa!!!
 
By this stage JOEs moaning has turned to a loud horrific scream. Cutting right 
through their argument. They both stare at him, startled. As there is silence in 
the room. JOE looks back at them startled, and gets up.
 
JOE
Thats better.
 
He walks across the room to the toilet. THUY looks at him, then back at TERRY.
 
THUY
I can see he hasnt changed either.
 
TERRY
Thuy. Can you stop! Please?
 
 
9. CONTD.                                                             9.
 
TERRY looks back at her, his eyes are pleading, and hes trying to be as sincere 
and honest as possible. Hes trying to make peace, but THUY is defiant. The 
toilet flushes amidst their impasse, as JOE walks out the door. She looks at 
him, scratching his belly, and then his head. Shes relentless.
 
THUY
Look at you two. Always together. No girls around. I mean what girl would want 
to go out with you?
 
TERRY
Please.
 
THUY
I mean, maybe you two should become lovers!
 
TERRY cant believe this. He shakes his head, and rolls his eyes back in 
disbelief. JOE flashes a cheesy grin, and interjects.
 
JOE
We already are.
 
JOE teasingly blows TERRY a kiss
 
TERRY
Man!
 
THUY smirks to herself sarcastically, and shakes her head in pity. She turns to 
leave.
 
THUY
This is a waste of time.
 
She starts to clomp down the hallway. TERRY is in hot pursuit after her, when 
suddenly the doorbell rings. TERRY lunges at the door and opens it. THUY stops. 
Standing before him is GEORGE STEVENS, his hair peroxided, hes dressed all 
groovy. With him is a female friend JESS, who looks very tom-boyish and tough. 
TERRY.. 
9. CONTD                                                             9.
 
is startled.
 
TERRY
George. Hi.
 
GEORGE looks back at TERRY mildly amused but quickly senses some sort of 
problem. He enters with JESS, TERRY lets them pass, and they come across THUY, 
who seems in that second to have miraculously changed her mood.
 
THUY
George!
 
GEORGE
Hey Thuy!
 
They embrace as GEORGE gives her a big affectionate hug,THUY hugs him back. He 
turns to introduce JESS, as TERRY stands in the background, holding his tounge, 
and letting the events solve themselves.
 
GEORGE
And this is my friend Jess, whos coming with us for the weekend.
THUY
Hi Jess
 
JESS smiles at her shyly, as GEORGE turns to TERRY
 
GEORGE
And of course Terry McKenna, whos place were going to.
 
JESS smiles back, as they start to walk down the hallway.
 
THUY
So wheres youre Beau?
9. contd                                                              9.
 
GEORGE
Who, Rod? Thats over. Im single now. Its great!
 
THUY
I know how it feels!
 
TERRY closes the door behind him as they disappear down the hallway. He shakes 
his fists in the air in victory.
 
TERRY
Yes!!!!!
 
10. INT  TERRYs PARENT HOUSE                   LATE MORNING  10.
 
TERRY, GEORGE, JESS, THUY and JOE are congegrated in the TV room. JOE is still 
slouched in the couch, and he slowly gets up to make some room, as JESS sits 
down in the space next to him. TERRY is standing in the corner, and THUY is in 
manic, happy conversation with GEORGE, seemingly oblivious to everything else.
 
THUY
I had the biggest shocker at Dangerfield the other day. These two total victims 
were giving me attitude about Scanlon and Theodore..
 
GEORGE
Private school brats?
 
THUY
(nodding agreement) Totally.
 
TERRY stands silently in the corner overlooking the scene. He raise his eyebrows 
at JOE who is sitting there nonchalantly, as JESS watches the TV. JOE picks up 
what hes thinking as he looks back at THUY, her mood suddenly lifted due 
GEORGES appearance. 
 
THUY
They were awful. I sold them..
10.   contd                                                      10.
 
..the sluttiest dresses, and both of them bought the same dress 
 
 
The doorbell rings again. THUY is startled but it a stops for a moment, glancing 
quickly at TERRY whos not there. She goes back to yapping away
 
THUY
Can you believe it?
 
GEORGE
Thats typical. Why do you think all the girls at Lauriston are blonde?
 
11. INT  TERRYS PARENTs HOUSE         LATE MORNING      11.
 
TERRY walks down the hallway, and opens the door. 
 
PATTI
Hey ! Terry!
 
TERRY
Patti!
 
Its PATTI LOMBARDO, an ex of TERRYS and one of his best female friends. Shes 
skinny and gothic-clubby looking. Her hair is tied into spunky braids. With her 
is SUZIE GOLDSTEIN, blonde, petite, and built like a jazz dancer. She smiles 
back at him, as they walk into the house.
12. INT  TERRYs PARENTs HOUSE              LATE MORNING     12. 
 
PATTI and SUZIE enter the room, TERRY is right behind them, the rest of the crew 
are in different states of conversation or watching TV.
 
SUZIE
George!
12.   contd                                                          12.
 
GEORGE waves at her, hes an instant hit with the ladies. TERRY gains control of 
the room.
 
TERRY
People! People! I think we should get a bit organized.
 
JOE
Good idea.
 
THUY
Listen to the two of them - Leaders!
 
TERRY glares quickly at THUY who gives him her attitude. GEORGE playfully ribs 
her with his elbow, as TERRY continues.
 
TERRY
I think we should drive in a convoy..
 
GEROGe
(mock singing) He got a great big convoy, truckin through the night..
 
The girls giggle at GEORGE. TERRY ignores him and continues.
 
TERRY
George, you take Thuy and Jess
 
GEROGE nods, THUY is beaming at him.
 
TERRY
..and me and Joe will go with Patti and Suzie, OK?
 
Everyone seems to nod in agreement.
 
12.   contd                                                      12.
TERRY
We stop off at Merryvale, theres a little store there, before we head to the 
A-frame, deeper in hills.
 
TERRY looks around at the room, everyone seems satisfied. JOE puts his hand up, 
as if hes a kid in a classroom.
 
JOE
What about ammo for the night?
 
PATTI
(jokingly) Were pacifists!
 
TERRY
I got a few buds of skunk. Thats it.
 
THUY
Big deal..
 
TERRY glares at THUY for spoiling the vibe.
 
TERRY
It shouldnt be a problem. Its Merryvale man  hippie central. Theres always 
parties and doofs and shit, I wouldnt worry too much.
 
JOE 
Cool.
 
TERRY looks around the room for any outstanding questions.
 
PATTI
Can we go?
 
TERRY
(smiles) Sure!
12.   CONTD                                                       12.
They get up to leave. TERRY walks into a room and gets his bags. The others 
leave the house talking happily amongst themselves. JOE slouches at the back. 
TERRY is last to leave setting the house alarm and locking up.
13. EXT  TERRYs PARENTS DRIVEWAY           LATE MORNING   13.
 
THUY is loading her gear into GEORGES hatchback car. GEORGE helps her pack her 
stuff. JESS is already inside. He closes the hatch and they both get in and 
drive off. Meanwhile JOE and TERRY load their stuff into the back of SUZIES 
4WD. They get into the back, PATTI and SUZIE get in the front, and they head off 
too.
 
14. INT  GEORGES CAR                      LATE MORNING   14.
 
They are on a wide road, on the outskirts of suburbia, heading towards the wild 
blue yonder. There is music playing in the car . JESS is in the back seat 
silent, pondering. GEORGE is mouthing the words to the song, and THUY is smiling 
to herself nodding her head. JESS leans forward to talk to the two of them.
 
JESS
Cant wait to get out into the country, you know? Get a bit of nature.
 
THUY
Me too.
 
GEORGE smiles to himself as he concentrates on the road. 
 
GEORGE
So its over between you and Terry?
 
THUY stares straight ahead, pensive.
 
THUY
Yeah.
 
 
14.   contd                                                      14.
 
GEORGE
(smiling to himself) You dont. sound too confident about it.
 
JESS
These heteros and their dramas.
 
JESS and GEORGE share a sarcastic laugh. THUY seems a bit defensive.
 
JESS
Dont worry Thuy. Were just shittin ya. Its the same all round, whatever you 
are.
 
THUY
As far as Im concerned  - its over. Im only coming tonight because of you 
two, and also because I feel sorry for Terry, the pathetic loser.
 
JESS and GEORGE share a smile as they listen to THUY. They know shes fronting.
 
THUY
Besides, I like hanging out with you two because youre such cool people.
 
JESS
Everyone these days thinks were cool darling..
 
GEORGE
..When in reality, were bitchy, heartless, arseholes.
 
They all laugh in sarcastic unison.
 
15. INT  SUZIES CAR                        LATE MORNING  15.
 
TERRY is slouched in the backseat of the 4WD his knees pressed up against the 
seat, hes staring glumly out the window, lost in melancholic thought. JOE is 
next to him playing a Gameboy, getting right into it. Terry feels a gentle 
tapping at his leg that knocks him out of his trance, its PATTI.
 
PATTI
Whats wrong Tez?
 
TERRY
Nothing.
 
JOE talks while still playing his Gameboy.
 
JOE
He hasnt gotten over Thuy.
 
TERRY gets defensive.
 
PATTI
Why did you invite her?
 
TERRY
I dont want to have any bad feelings towards her (beat) I still like her as a 
friend.
 
PATTI and JOE look at each other, sensing its more than what TERRY says. She 
pats him reassuringly on the knee.
 
PATTI
Things will sort themselves out.
 
She looks over at JOE, and smiles briefly at him, possibly hinting at something, 
then turns back to TERRY.
 
15. CONTD                                                        15.
 
PATTI
Itll be big. I can feel it.
 
TERRY
Yeah.
 
PATTI turns back to the front seat, and turns the music up a little, she sings 
along with it. JOE gives TERRY a little kick, egging him on a bit.
 
JOE
Soft cock!
 
TERRY
What?
 
TERRY flashes a little fake smile, before staring out the window again, looking 
out at the wild blue yonder.
 
16. EXT  NIGHTFORD                    EARLY AFTERNOON      16.
 
Both cars drive past the sign WELCOME TO NIGHTFORD  YOUR GATEWAY TO THE 
ALTERNATIVE. The cars pull into the local independent petrol station for a fuel 
stop.
 
17. EXT  SUZES CAR                   EARLY AFTERNOON        17.
 
An old man approaches their car. SUZE winds down the window and gives him 
directions, as PATTI, TERRY and JOE slip out the door to get some fresh air and 
a stretch.
 
OLD MAN
How can I help you love?
 
SUZIE
Ten dollars of unleaded, and check the oil please.
17. CONTD                                               17.
 
SUZIE flicks open the petrol flap, the OLD MAN disappears to do his job. SUZIE 
gets out of the car.
18. EXT  PETROL STATION            EARLY AFTERNOON      18.
 
TERRY and SUZIE are idling by the car. PATTI has gone over to GEORGES car and 
is talking to them, as they wait in their car. JOE is off on his own checking 
things out.
 
TERRY
Im a bit lost.
 
SUZIE
I know that.
 
TERRY
Ill ask the old guy.
 
TERRY approaches the old man, who is pumping petrol into the car.
 
TERRY
(nervously) Hows it going?
 
OLD MAN
Yeah.
 
TERRY
Um. You wouldnt know how to get to Merryvale from here?
 
The OLD MAN smiles at him.
 
OLD MAN
Happens all the time. 
 
The OLD MAN straitens up, and pockets the rag hes holding. He points out 
directions.
18. CONTD                                                        18.
 
OLD MAN
You take this road straight up until the round about..
 
TERRY nods absorbing the information..
 
OLD MAN
Chuck a right. Youll see signs. Follow them, until you reach OLD MERRYVALE 
ROAD follow that for ten ks or so and youll get there.
 
The old man goes finishes pumping the petrol, puts the nozzle back on the pump, 
and closes the petrol cap. He looks over at GEORGES car and notices the gay 
pride sticker on it. He looks back suspiciously at TERRY and SUZIE.
 
OLD MAN
So what are youse doing out here?
 
TERRY
Having a party.
 
The OLD MAN laughs back at him in mock delight.
 
OLD MAN 
Yeah! Merryvale was a wild palce a few years back - full of all those crazies 
and hippies, and greenies and anyone else who didnt fit in.
 
TERRY
(smiling in agreement) So Ive heard.
 
OLD MAN
Its settled down a bit lately. There was a few police busts a 
18. CONTd                                                           18.
 
..while back. Getting rid of 
the druggoes. But theres still freaks out there if you want to find them.
 
TERRY smiles back at him. The OLD MAN lifts the bonnet of the car. PATTI is 
nearby having a stretch, and the old man turns his head, catching a quick perv. 
PATTI notices this and glares at him. He goes back to checking the oil, as PATTI 
walks over to GEORGES car.
19. EXT/INT  GEROGEs CAR                 EARLY AFTERNOON  19.
 
PATTI leans into the window on the drivers side so she can talk to GEORGE.
 
PATTI
See the dirty old bastard checking out my tits?
 
GEORGE
They dont know any better.
 
JESS
Old bastard.
 
PATTI
Hell probably have a good wank on the dunny after we leave.
 
PATTI and THUY and JESS all laugh in unison. The old man hears their laughter, 
and looks up, and JESS, sensing the opportunity, makes a wanking motion at him 
through the back window. The old man notices this and blushes. PATTI notices 
TERRY at SUZIES car, hes pointing to his mobile phone, then pointing back for 
them to check. PATTI leans back into the window.
 
PATTI
George. Got the mobile?
 
GEROGE lifts it up from the clutch next to him. He switches it on with a 
familiar beep and smiles at her. 
19. CONTD                                                           19.         
                                                   
GEORGE
Check.
 
PATTI waves over to TERRY giving him the thumbs up.
 
PATTI
Well catch you there then.
 
PATTI walks back over to the car and hops in. The OLD MAN slams the boot of the 
car shut. SUZIE is already in the car, so too is JOE and TERRY, as PATTI scoots 
in the side.
20. INT  SUZIES CAR                 EARLY AFTERNOON       20.
 
The OLD MAN leans into the window and demand payment.
 
OLD MAN
Checked the oil. Its fine. Thatll be twenty bucks.
 
SUZIE fumbles for her purse and hands him twenty dollars.
 
OLD MAN
Thanking you. Have fun kids, and god bless.
 
TERRY
Thanks man.
 
SUZIE
See ya.
 
21. EXT  PETROL STATION            EARLY AFTERNOON   21.
 
The cars drive off. The OLD MAMN stands by one of the pumps watching them drive 
up the road.
21. CONTD                                                          21.
OLD MAN
Young modern freaks, just what the doctor ordered.
 
22. EXT  ON THE ROAD TO MERRYVALE           EARLY AFTERNOON       22.
 
The cars turn right at the main round-about. 
 
23. EXT  ON THE ROAD TO MERRYVALE           EARLY AFTERNOON    23.
 
They follow the signs pointing to Merryvale, and turn off at the old Merryvale 
Road. The cars drive up the road, it is narrow and quite old, potholes regularly 
line it. SUZIES car is leading the way.
 
24. INt  SUZIES CAR                   EARLY AFTERNOON       24.
 
SUZIE is driving along, admiring the spectacular scenery and countryside lining 
the road. She seems a bit lost in the beauty of it all. PATTI looks out the 
window next to her. TERRY is chilling in the back, and JOE is leaning between 
the seats flirting with the girls.
 
JOE
So any of you had a threesome?
 
PATTI blushes at the concept. SUZIE grins to herself hiding something.
 
PATTI
Youre depraved!
 
JOE 
No Im not. Youre repressed.
 
SUZIE
Girls dont think about that stuff, like boys do.
24. CONTD                                                           24.
JOE
Bullshit
 
They laugh in disbelief at JOES claim.
 
PATTI
(laughing sarcastically)You boys have no idea.
 
JOE
Look I read about it in Cleo.
 
TERRY
(from behind) Dont listen to him girls.
 
SUZIE doesnt take notice, as she looks around at the amazing landscape, 
sunlight beaming through the cabin.
 
SUZIE
This is wonderful.
 
JOE
Just like a threesome!
 
PATTI
Will you shut up!
 
What SUZIE doesnt notice, but JOE does, is an old utility truck heading for 
them head-on at high speed.
 
JOE
FUCKEN LOOK OUT!!!!!
 
SUZIE screams as she swerves and brakes hard. Everyone screams as the car skids.
 
 
25. EXT -  OLD MERRYVALE ROAD      EARLY AFTERNOON    25.
 
SUZIES car swerves off the road, and grinds to a skidding halt, causing dust 
and stones to fly everywhere. GEORGES car skids to a stop not too far behind. 
There is the sound of a blaring horn. The utility pulls up a bit further down 
the road and waits there.
 
26. EXT  OLD MERRYVALE ROAD           EARLY AFTERNOON    26.
 
GEORGE runs out of his car, and checks to see that SUZIE and the others are 
alright. The utility is still waiting there, a bit up the road, idling its 
engine.
 
27. EXT/INT  SUZIES CAR             EARLY AFTERNOON    27.
 
SUZIE is at the wheel shaking, the others are shaken too. 
 
SUZIE
I cant believe..
 
TERRY
You OK. Patti?
 
PATTI
Fine.
 
JOE
Fucking sick cunt!
 
GEORGE taps on the window. SUZIE winds it down.
 
GEORGE
You OKAY?
 
SUZIE
(panting) Yeah. Im alright.
 
Both of them are startled by voices in the background. Its the passenger of the 
utility, standing by the cabin. They cant make out exactly what the person 
looks like. There looks to be a big 
27. CONTD                                                           27.
 
burly woman in the drivers seat.
 
      FIGURE
Fuck off and die!!
 
The figure raises a finger at them. Gets back in the utility and it drives off.
 
GEORGE
(yells back)Get fucked!
 
GEORGE turns back to SUZIE, he seems a bit shook up too, but is trying hard to 
compose himself.
 
GEORGE
Its OKAY. Rednecks are part of the scenery.
 
SUZIE nods and smiles, as she catches her breath.
 
GEORGE
Along with kangaroos and dingoes and all the other cute things that live out 
here.
 
SUZIE smiles at him, but doesnt feel confident. He gives her a reassuring tap, 
as she starts up the car.
 
28. EXT  MERRYVALE ROAD                 MID-AFTERNOON   28.
 
The convoy soon arrives at Merryvale, which isnt really a town, rather just a 
small convenience store, which doubles as a petrol station as well. There are a 
few little cottages around the place, but generally the place is dead. The 
convoy turns off a little dirt road, SUZIES car is in front, as the two cars 
amble slowly up the bumpy, pothole filled road.
 
 
29. INT  SUZIES CAR                      MID-AFTERNOON  29.
 
There is still music playing in the car, though everyone seems a little shaken 
and tired.
 
TERRY
Dont worry too much about those losers back there.
 
SUZIE
I should have watched the road more, but their reaction was shocking.
 
PATTI
Rednecks like conflict. Remember Pauline Hanson  (mock voice) I dont like 
it.
 
JOE
Fuck Pauline Hanson!
 
TERRY
Just relax, anyway its a bit more hippy and friendly out here. Or so Im told
 
TERRY is distracted by two feral types walking along the side of the dirt road. 
One of them is male, skinny and dirty. The other is female, overweight with her 
hair in braids. SUZIE toots and waves at them and they vaguely wave back. Both 
of the ferals watch as the two cars pass them.
 
TERRY
(smiling and points) Like there! The place is full of them. Which means it 
shouldnt be hard for us to score tonite.
 
PATTI
I hope so! I mean what else are we gonna do, play bongos?
29. CONTD                                                        29.
JOE
Ferals are full of shit!
 
TERRY
(ribbing JOE) Cmon man! Think positive!
 
JOE
Theyre all compulsive bullshitters. Theyre more likely to scam you for drugs, 
that get them for you.
 
 
TERRY
Whatever you say, expert!
 
They keep driving along, when TERRY notices the front gate to his parents 
property. He point is out to SUZIE.
 
TERRY
Thats it. Let me get out and open it.
 
SUZIE
Cool
 
PATTI
Finally! Im knackered!
 
SUZIE stops the car, TERRY hops out.
 
30. EXT  FRONT GATE                MID AFTERNOON       30.
 
TERRY fiddles with a lock, and opens the front gate of the property, swinging it 
open. SUZIES car drives through, then GEORGES car passes him, the window wound 
down and pumping techno blaring out of it.
30. CONTD                                                        30.
GEORGE
This is the jungle! Rockin!
 
His car passes and TERRY taps the boot. He closes the gate.
 
31. EXT  THE A-FRAME                       MID-AFTERNOON     31.
 
The cars pull up in a clearing. There is thick scrub and forest all around them, 
and the roadway is basically a lumpy dirt track. Before them is Terrys parents 
holiday house. Its a big, comfortable looking A-frame, blending exquisitely 
into its surrounds. There are stairs leading to a big porch, which overlooks the 
hills and surrounding fauna. Techno is still pumping out of GEORGES car, before 
he switches it off, the awesome tranquility of the countryside quickly absorbs 
them. PATTI and SUZIE hop out of their car, and instantly affected by their 
surrounds, hug each other in happiness.
 
PATTI
Were here - Yay!
 
SUZIE
This is great.
 
JOE stumbles out of the car, and seems to be a bit overwhelmed by his 
surroundings.
 
JOE
Awesome!
 
Meanwhile, GEROGE and JESS have left their car, bags in hand, and THUY steps 
out, a huge smile on her face.
 
THUY
Wow! This is unreal!
 
TERRY looks over at her, and noticing her change in mood, smiles tenderly at 
her. She notices this, and hesitatingly smiles back. GEORGE taps her on the 
shoulder, breaking her out of her dreamy state. TERRY notices this, and GEORGE 
gives him a cheesy smile, then shakes his head in bewilderment, knowing 
reconciliation is not far away. GEORGE is holding THUY sleeping bag.
31. CONTD                                               31.
GEROGE
You forgot this, drongo.
 
GEORGE hands THUY her sleeping bag.
 
THUY
This place is wonderful.
 
GEROGE
Its OK.
 
THUY elbows GEORGE playfully as they walk toward the A-Frame.
 
32. INT/EXT  A-FRAME PORCH              MID-AFTERNOON        32.
 
TERRY is at the front porch, fumbling with the lock of the front sliding 
window/door, before it finally gives way, he slides it open. He walks inside, 
its dark, and un-inhabited, but generally clean. He walks into the main room, 
and opens some curtains, as SUZIE and PATTI walk in, and quickly dump their 
stuff and plop on some couches. TERRY opens the rest of the curtains, as GEORGE, 
THUY and JESS walk in, dropping their stuff, and generally checking the place 
out. JOE is last inside.
 
JOE
This place is choice!
 
PATTI
Its unreal!
 
She runs up and gives TERRY a friendly hug.
 
PATTI
I love it!
 
THUY doesnt say anything, but appears embarrassed, as she is impressed, but 
doesnt want to admit it.
 
GEORGE
What do you think, Thuy?
32. CONTD                                                           32.
 
THUY is reluctant. She tries to appear aloof and indifferent, but it doesnt 
seem to work.
 
THUY
Its very nice. Im sort of glad I came.
 
GEORGE raises his eyebrows at TERRY, and gives his a told you so type look. 
JESS walks over to the stereo system, and tries to start it up. Theres no 
power.
 
JESS
Wheres the juice?
 
TERRY
Generator. Anyone want to give me a hand?
 
GEORGE gets up and walks over to TERRY.
 
GEORGE 
Ill do it.
 
Both of them leave the room.
 
33. EXT  A-FRAME                   MID AFTERNOON       33.
 
GEORGE and TERRY walk down the steps, and walk behind the A-Frame and up into 
the forest.
 
34. EXT  NEARBY FOREST             MID-AFTERNOON       34.
 
GEORGE and TERRY are walking together, there is scrub and thick forest all 
around them as they walk toward the generator, which is fifty metres away from 
the A-Frame.
 
GEORGE
Its a great place. Thanks for inviting me.
34. CONTD                                                           34.
 
TERRY
No worries.
 
GEORGE
I think Thuy wants to get back with you.
 
TERRY
I dont know. Shes been a total difficult bitch the whole time so far.
 
GEOrGE
You should make more of an effort. You watch. Thingsll turn out alright.
 
TERRY smiles hopefully, as they arrive at the generator. TERRY opens the fuel 
nozzle, and is pleased to find it full of petrol. He fumbles with the starter, 
trying to get the thing going, but has trouble.
 
TERRY
Fuck!
 
GEORGE
Let me try.
 
TERRY stands aside and lets GEORGE have a go. GEORGE starts it first go, as the 
generator sputters a little and then zips into life, making a godawful racket. 
GEORGE looks at him, smiling.
 
GEORGE
Maybe you should take up gym.
 
TERRY laughs. They start to walk back towards the A-Frame. TERRY puts his arm 
around GEORGE
 
TERRY
Hey bud I want to thank you for everything. OK.
34. CONTD                                                          34.
 
GEORGE
Sure. Just enjoy the night. Were gonna have one hell of a party.
 
TERRY
Yo!
 
They both head back to the A-Frame, happy.
35. INT  BINOCULAR VIEW           MID AFTERNOON        35.  
There is a binocular point-of-view. Someone is watching the A-frame. The 
binoculars are following GEORGE and TERRY, watching them come from around the 
back, and walk up to the stairs to the A-Frame. The watcher sees two beautiful 
young girls walk out onto the porch to greet the two boys. Then all of them head 
back into the A-Frame. There is the distant sound of a doof-doof beat, which 
means whoever is watching them isnt far away.
 
WATCHER
Looks like theres gonna be a party tonite!
 
36. INT  A-Frame TV room           MID AFTERNOON       36.
 
JESS has managed to fire up the stereo unit, there is the steady pulse of techno 
music. Everyone seems to have packed away their gear. JOE is sitting back on one 
of the couches rolling a joint. JESS takes a position in the middle of the room 
and starts grooving to the music. SUZIE sees this and walks over to join her. 
They are both smiling as they dance to the music, enjoying themselves. JOE 
finally gets the joint finished and puts it behind his ear. He gets up and goes 
over to the kitchen. He starts to sift through all the cupboards until his finds 
his booty.
 
JOE
Fuckin bonus.
 
He takes a dusty, but unopened bottle of cheap vodka from out of the cupboard. 
Blows the dust off and inspects the label. He gets some glasses, and takes them 
over to the main room.
36. CONTD                                              36.
 
JOE
Well I guess we can get started.
 
37. EXT  A-FRAME BALCONY            MID AFTERNOON        37.
 
PATTI and THUY are on the balcony. THUY is leaning against the railing at the 
end of the A-Frame, which overlooks the forest below. The sun is streaming 
through, both of them seem relaxed and in awe of their surroundings. The rest of 
the party are inside, music pumping through.
 
PATTI
So what do you think of this place?
 
THUY
Its great! These hills are beautiful!
 
PAtti
Yeah. Its good to get out of town every now and again. Its so nice of Terry.
 
THUY doesnt answer. She looks out at the hills, trying to pass off PATTIS 
comment.
 
PATTI
Youre not over him are you?
 
THUY
Why is everyone..
 
PATTI
Its obvious.
 
PATTI looks at her, trying to penetrate her feelings.
37. CONTD                                                           37.
PATTI
I went out with him for three years. He didnt mean it.
 
THUY
Look.
 
PATTI
Sorry, Ill leave you alone.
 
THUY
OK, I admit it. Im not over him. 
 
PATTI looks at her, smiling, but she lets THUY finish.
 
THUY
He was such a fucking arsehole. I mean, wasnt I enough?
 
PATTI
Its his upbringing, hes always had it easy. He doesnt know any better..
 
THUY
Thats bullshit! (beat) He really hurt me. Hes got to prove himself to me if he 
wants me back.
 
PATTI
Isnt he doing that now?
 
THUY
Its not enough. He has to have the guts to tell me himself. Hes been too 
gutless so far..
 
PATTI
Thats sounds fair. But dont
37. CONTD                                                        37.      
 
..get too worked up. We should all just make up and get along, and enjoy!
 
PATTI puts her arm around THUY has gives her a friendly hug, THUY leans her head 
into her shoulder and smiles, crocodile tears welling up in her eyes, when there 
is a crash onto the balcony, frightening both of them. Its JOE, half way to 
inebriation, the bottle of vodka in his hand half empty.
 
JOE 
Hey girls! Join the party!
 
JOE gives PATTI the eye, THUY notices this and sticks her finger in her mouth, 
simulating a puke. PATTI and THUY both share a giggle. JOE notices this.
 
JOE
Good on you, you prude!
 
PATTI
Awwwww!
 
TERRY walks out, behind JOE, theres still music pumping out from inside. He 
notices THUY and she notices him, they share a smile between each other for the 
first time. PATTI sees this and smiles.
 
TERRY
Hey..Umm..Could you all come inside, we have to get organized for this evening.
 
JOE and TERRY disappear inside, the girls follow.
38. INT  A-FRAME TV ROOM             MID AFTERNOON       38.
 
GEORGE is sitting down on one of the couches, talking with SUZIE, as both of 
them share a drink. The room is smoky and everyone inside seems stoned. PATTI 
and THUY both take a seat on another couch, and JESS turns down the music a 
little and skips over to join them. JOE plops down on a bean bag, as TERRY 
addresses everyone.
38. CONTD                                              38.
TERRY
Ive got some good news and some bad news.
 
EVERYONE
Aaaaawwww!!
 
TERRY
OK. OK. The bad news is we got no ammo for the evening.
 
SUZIE
No eccies?
 
TEERY 
Nope. We got half a bud of skunk and thats it?
 
JOE
What about Dr.George over there?
 
GEORGE
Everyones gone to Sydeny for Mardi Gras.
 
JOE
(sarcastically) What sort of fag are ya?
 
GEORGE nonchalantly gives him the finger.
 
GEORGE
Someones desperate.
 
TERRY
OK boys. Enough of the bitching.
 
PATTI
(mockingly)Theyre like two 
38. CONTD                                                            38.
 
..little girls.
 
TERRY
OK, everyone settled?
 
JOE looks at GEORGE, and falls silent. He looks back at TERRY and nods.
 
TERRY
Good. Anyway, the good news is that we have a good chance of scoring gear from 
some locals. Those freaks on the way..
 
JOE
Spot on!
 
THUY
Can you trust them?
 
TERRY
We really dont have much to lose. Its three now, we have until susnset to try 
and connect. It should be OK.
 
SUZIE
Whos gonna go?
 
TERRY looks at JOE and GEORGE. They both look at each other, although JOE 
recoils in mock terror.
 
GEORGE
Its OK sweetie, youre not my type anyway.
 
JOE
(sighing in relief) Gosh! Im rejected! Im devastated!
38. CONTD                                                           38.
 
GEORGE gets up to leave. He looks around at everyone.
 
GEROGE
Money?
 
TERRY
Oh yeah. I reckon about 20 each should be enough.
 
They all reach into their bags or pockets or whatever, and pick out whatever 
cash they can rummage together. Pretty soon there is a collection of about one 
hundred dollars. TERRY hands it to GEORGE who pockets it. He looks over at JOE.
 
GEORGE
Well come on sunshine, move that virgin arse of yours.
 
JOE
(clueless) Me?
 
GEORGE
No, tinkerbell.
 
TERRY looks at JOE, he gets up, and clumsily follows GEORGE. TERRY is left in 
the A-frame with the four girls.
 
JOE
(in mock Terminator voice) Ah-ll be bark!
 
39. EXT  MERRYVALE STORE                  LATE AFTERNOON  39.
 
GEORGE and JOE arrive in GEORGEs car at the Merryvale local store. Its a small 
ranch-style wooden building with two fuel pumps in the front. The two ferals 
that they passed earlier are lingering out the front. The ferals give them 
weird, stoned smiles. This unnerves JOE a little, JOE merely discounts their 
presence. The two of them walk through the flimsy fly-wire doors. Inside there 
are a two rows of shelves, sparsely stacked with 
39. CONTD                                                        39.
 
..assorted grocery items, there is a fridge stocking milk, juice, softdrinks, 
beer, and an unattended counter, with a bell. GEORGE hits it. There is no 
answer.
 
GEORGE
(to JOE) What theyre still asleep!
 
A weatherbeaten man in his mid-forties walks out from the back room. He looks 
like an ex-junkie. He gives GEORGE a weary smile, catching him off guard.
 
GROCER
You right?
 
 
GEROGE
Sorry. I was wondering if you have any cigarettes.
 
The GROCER looks over his shoulder and points at the wall of cigarettes behind 
him.
 
GROCER
Whatever you want.
 
GEORGE
Dunhill. White.
 
The GROCER almost instantly finds the brand, and flips it to GEORGE on the 
counter. JOE is standing behind GEORGE looking a bit nervous.
 
GROCER
Eight-fifty thanks.
 
GEORGE fumbles in his pocket and hands the grocer a tenner. JOE whispers in 
GEORGES ear as the GROCER has turned around to get change.
39. CONTD                                                           39.
JOE
You reckon?
 
GEORGE shakes his head for a no. He gives the GROCER a cheesy grin as he turns 
around.
 
      GROCER
Dollar fifty change.
 
GEORGE
Ta. Take it easy bud.
 
The GROCER gives him a whithered smile, and walks back into the back room. 
GEORGE and JOE leave the store, but on the way out, JOE is nudging GEORGE for 
some info.
 
JOE
Who are we gonna ask?
 
GEROGE shrugs at him, and keeps walking out the swinging door.
 
40.  EXT  FRONT OF MERRYVALE STORE      LATE AFTERNOON      40.
 
In what seems like perfect syncronicity, they both spot the two ferals from 
before. They are bumming right near the door. GEORGE smiles at JOE, answering 
his question. JOE looks back at them, not sure what to do. One of the ferals is 
male, skinny and shabbily dressed, he has what looks like a sharpened crayon 
stub piercing his ear in some weird kind of modern primitive style. His head is 
shaved, except for little peroxided tails at the back of his head, his eyes are 
screwey and wild. The female with him is overweight. Her hair is plaited into 
two pony tails. She is wearing colourful rave-type overalls, and is smiling at 
them in an overly cheerful way, however it is a forced cheeriness. Shes also 
missing a front tooth. GEORGE looks at both of them, and gives them a cheesy 
smile and peacemaking wave.
 
JOE
(meekly) Hi.
 
The female, who is called LUCY IN THE SKY WITH DIAMONDS, snickers at him.
40. CONTD                                                            40.
LUCY
Gday.(beat) 
 
JOE
You guys from around here?
 
The male, FERAL FRED, points over to the distance.
 
FRED
Just up the road.
 
JOE nods his head and gives them a knowing look. GEORGE nudges him to get on 
with it.
 
JOE
So yeah. Are there many people down this weekend?
 
LUCY
No.
 
JOE 
I guess its not the right time of year?
 
LUCY
I dunno.
 
JOE
You wouldnt know if theres any doofs going on tonite?
 
FRED
I think you missed out bud.
 
LUCY seems to be getting weary, and senses that the guys are after something.
 
LUCY
So what are you guys here for..
40. CONTD                                                           40.
JOE
Oh you know..
 
GEORGE
A party, which weve got to go to. But my friend here wants to ask you for 
something.
 
JOE glares at GEORGE as GEORGE suddenly grabs his arm to leave.
 
JOE
Could you just come with us for a sec, weve got to ask you something..
 
GEORGE starts walking to the car. JOE follows him and motions for the ferals to 
follow. They do, stopping at a log-chair near the car, and out of hearing 
distance from the store.
 
41. INT  MERRYVALE STORE              LATE AFTERNOON      41.
 
The GROCER is standing by the door of his shop. Hes looking through the flywire 
door, watching the FERALS and GEORGE and JOE talking by the car. Someone calls 
out behind him.
 
GROCERS WIFE
Whats happening Jeff?
 
GROCER
Oh just had some tourists. Theyre talking to those two freaks.
 
GROCERS WIFE
What those new people? 
 
The GROCER nods his head, he continues looking out the door, watching intently.
41. CONTD                                                            41.
 
GROCER
I dont know. Theres something a bit wrong with those people. I dont know.
 
He keeps looking at them out the door.
42. EXT  FRONT OF STORE              LATE AFTERNOON        42.
 
The FERALS are both leaning on the log-chair out the front of the store, near 
the main road. GEORGEs car is right nearby. JOE is interrogating them, as 
GEORGE opens his ciggies and lights one up. He takes a puff.
 
JOE
You wouldnt know where to get any gear?
 
LUCY snickers and looks quizzically back at FRED, before looking back at JOE.
 
LUCY
Gear?
 
JOE 
You know. Gear? (spelling it out) DRUGS.
 
LUCY laughs sarcastically, then gives JOE a mean, knowing look straight in the 
eyes, before smiling, sinisterly.
 
LUCY
(grins) Ohhhhhh! GEAR.. DRUGS!
 
She looks over at FRED, who snickers back.
 
LUCY
Sure. (beat) We can get you whatever you want.
42. CONTD                                                            42.
 
JOE looks at GEORGE, and GEORGE nods back his appreciation  tentatively.
 
JOE
Cool. 
 
FRED
You got to give us a lift to get the stuff.
 
JOE
Sure, no drama.
 
42. int  georges car                 lATE AFTERNOON       42.
 
GEORGE is at the wheel of the car. JOE is next to him. LUCY and FRED are in the 
back seat. FRED is leaning between the two of them pointing the directions.
 
FRED
Were just up this way.
 
Hes pointing up the dirt road. JOE reels a little from the pungent smell of 
FRED, as GEORGE recognizes the road.
 
GEORGE
Hey, youre right near us.
 
FRED looks over his shoulder at LUCY, who smiles knowingly at him, as if they 
share some common knowledge. The boys dont notice this.
 
FRED
Thats good to know. Haha. Were neighbours.
 
He turns around to LUCY again.
42. CONTD                                                           42.
FRED
Neighbours!  (in mock signing tone) Everybody needs good neighbours, with a 
little understanding. Haha!
 
GEORGE and JOE dont seem to want to share the joke. GEORGE continues driving, 
and glances at the gate of TERRYS parents place. LUCY notices this. JOE pulls 
out his mobile phone and starts to dial.
 
43. INT  a-frame tv room           late afternoon        43.
 
There is pumping techno filling the room, which is by now filling with smoke. 
THUY is sipping a drink and is in a conversation with PATTI. JESS and SUZIE are 
dancing together, and TERRY is lamely trying to join in, when his mobile rings. 
He answers it.
 
TERRY
Yeah.
 
THUY, who is by now a little drunk, approaches him with uncharacteristic cheer, 
and gives him a tickle-pinch in the waist. He recoils, and playfully shrugs her 
off, as he continues to into the phone.
 
TERRY
Where are ya?
 
44. INT  GEORGES CAR                 LATE AFTERNOON       44.
 
JOE is on his mobile talking. The ferals are grinning and joking amongst 
themselves in the back seat
 
JOE
You wont believe it
 
JOE looks out the car window to try and gain some sort of bearing. He sees a dim 
light in the distance, the forest around them is thick and disorienting.
44. CONTD                                              44.
JOE
But were scoring drugs practically right next door to your place!
 
45. INT  A-FRAME tv room           LATE AFTERNOON       45.
 
TERRY is still on the phone, hes beaming from the good news. 
 
TERRY
Fuckin no way!
 
46. INT  GEORGES CAR                   TWILIGHT          46.
 
JOE is still on the phone, as FRED leans forward and points out the final 
directions, somewhere for GEORGE to park.
 
JOE
Were pulling up now. See you in about half-a.
 
JOE switches off the mobile and puts it in his pocket.
 
47. INT  A-FRAME TV ROOM           TWILIGHT       47.
 
By now, PATTI has joined THUY, and has her arms around her waist. The girls seem 
playful, even a little horny, as the techno music pounds on. TERRY switches off 
his mobile, and is elated.
 
TERRY
They fuckin scored!
 
PATTI
Woo-hoo!
 
THUY
What did they get?
47. CONTD                                                        47.
 
TERRY
Not sure. But it sounds good. 
 
PATTI
Yeah!
 
PATTI takes TERRY by the hand over to the middle of the room, as JESS turns the 
music up full bore. The mesmerizing sound takes over all their senses. THUY is 
lingering nearby, she wants to get closer to TERRY  in fact all the girls do  
as JESS walks over to dance as well, she hands him the bottle, he takes a big 
gulp, then passes it to SUZIE.
 
TERRY
Lets party! 
 
The music skips a beat, and TERRY uses this to make his move on THUY, she is 
still standing near him, smiling, waiting. He boogies a bit with PATTI, then 
moves over to JESS, who jokingly shrugs him off, before he approaches THUY. He 
looks her up and down, and she just smiles back at him, innocent again, all 
their conflicts seem resolved in this moment, as TERRY swivels his hips and 
grooves to the rhythm, THUY follows, the music bringing them together. 
 
PATTI
(whispering to Jess) Look! Hes all over her! This is unbelievable
 
JESS
No. Predictable.
 
PATTI
Im so glad for them.
 
JESS grabs PATTI, and starts to do a funky erotic dance with her, as TERRY puts 
his hands around THUY, and tentatively kisses her. She giggles, and kisses him 
back. He kisses her again, and in an instant, they are all over each other, 
tongues flailing , hands all over - squeezing, fondling, rubbing. Teenage lust 
has re-ignited. SUZIE keeps sipping from the bottle of grog she has, and takes a 
puff off her ciggie, enjoying the moment. JESS notices, and grabs PATTI, 
pointing at them. They both laugh, as the techno 
47. CONTD                                                            47.
..pounds away.
48. EXT  the front of the house             TWILIGHT   48.
 
JOE is already following LUCY and FRED to the house, as GEORGE locks his car 
behind them. He quickly jogs up to JOE to catch up with him. The house is double 
story and is strange and old. Its definitely seen better days. There are hulks 
of broken down cars in the filthy overgrown garden in front of it. GEORGE elbows 
JOE, and points to something. JOE looks over, and sees marijuana and opium 
plants growing wild in the garden, JOE smiles, but GEORGE doesnt seem too 
impressed.
 
GEORGE
(to the ferals) We cant stay too long, weve got a party.
 
LUCY
Thats alright. Is it in the area?
 
GEORGE
(laughing) Were about a five minute walk through those trees.
 
LUCY 
Cool. Maybe we can come a bit later and show youse a good time?
 
JOE nudges GEROGE discreetly and gives him a stern look. He doesnt want these 
losers at the party.
 
GEROGE
Ah. Whatever. See what happens
 
FRED
Yeah, right.
 
LUCY
Shut up Fred, theyre trying to be friendly.
48. CONTD                                                        48.
 
LUCY gives FRED a mean look.
 
LUCY
Its OK. Hes got a few personality disorders. Just ignore him.
 
LUCY gives him a swipe.
 
LUCY
Dont ya stupid?
 
JOE and GEROGE look at each other a bit concerned with LUCYs sudden bizarre 
turn of behavior, but follow them anyway, since scoring drugs is always a risky 
endeavor.
 
JOE
(quietly) See that? Thats suss.
 
GEORGE
It was your idea.
 
JOE
Whatever. Lets just make this quick.
 
 
They follow LUCY and FRED up the front patio stairs of the house, and in through 
the dark front door.
 
49. INT  HALLWAY of THE HOUSE             TWILIGHT     49.
 
GEORGE and JOE are following LUCY and FRED through the hallway. There is a door 
to their extreme right, which seems bolted shut. The hallway is dingy and 
unkept, at the end of the hall is a door which looks reinforced. LUCY notices 
them looking at it.
 
49.     contd                                      49.
 
LUCY
Thats just the security door  for burglars and shit.
 
GEORGE and JOE look back at her strangely. LUCY opens a door to her left.
 
LUCY
Just come through here.
 
LUCY ushers them into the room. FRED disappears up the hallway.
 
JOE
Wheres he going?
 
LUCY 
Just to check if our connections are here.
 
They walk into the room.
 
50.     INT  WAITING ROOM           EARLY EVENING    50.
 
GEORGE and JOE are in what appears to be a disused doctors waiting room. There 
are rows of three chairs parallel to each other against each wall, and a little 
coffee table between them. There is a whithered Bird of Paradise plant in the 
corner. On the coffee table are lots of tabloid magazines, and some Psychology 
Today magazines.
 
LUCY
Just take a seat boys.
 
The boys go to sit down. GEORGE notices the magazines as he sits.
 
GEORGE
Whos the shrink?
50. CONTD                                               50.
 
GEORGE picks up one of the Psychology Today journals, and looks at LUCY, 
looking for an answer.
 
LUCY
No-one. Theyre just magazines. Just have a seat, and well fix you up for your 
drugs.
 
LUCY seems a bit nervous. She bites some flesh from her thumb, then smiles 
uneasily.
 
LUCY
Theyll be with you in a sec, just wait here.
 
And at that, LUCY quickly steps out of the room, closes the door, and it clacks 
shut. GEORGE lunges for the handle, but its locked.
 
GEORGE
Hey!
 
JOE joins him, has a go, but its no use. He bangs at the door.
 
JOE
Open this fucken door you feral cunts!
 
He bangs the door once more, angrily, and walks across the room to a window, 
cursing.
 
JOE
I cant believe I trusted some fucken feral. FUCK! 
 
GEORGE tries the door once more, but to no avail. He seems unnerved, but is 
doing his best to remain calm. He sits down, and picks up one of the magazines, 
flicking through it.
 
GEORGE
Who reads this shit?
50. CONTD                                                            50.
JOE
Look lets count our losses and get out of here. I mean who are these fuckin mad 
cunts? Reading psychology magazines. They could be maniacs for all we know. 
Rednecks. Fuckin I dont know! (beat) And besides, that cunt smells of piss.
 
GEORGE
Just relax. I mean its always a risk scoring. Lets just wait a bit and..
 
JOE
Fuck it. Weve got to get out of here.
 
JOE walks across the room, towards the door, when it suddenly opens, startling 
him. GEROGE turns around and is startled as well as he sees two men enter the 
room. One of them is huge, well over six feet tall, and fat. Hes dressed as a 
woman and is wearing a clown-like multi-coloured wig, in fact its hard to 
distinguish whether this guy is a clown or someone far more sinister. The other 
man is in his early 50s, he has a moustache, and his left ear is pierced, he 
too wears a multicolored wig, but has an unnerving respectability about him. JOE 
is terrified and riveted to the spot by the sight of these two. He looks at the 
giant cross-dresser, and is terrified, shaking in his shoes like a little boy. 
GEORGE acts quickly and gets up, but before either of them can do anything, the 
older man comes forward.
 
MAN
Were not leaving so soon are we?
 
JOE is stunned, he shakes his head in terror. GEORGE isnt sure what to do, but 
regardless, the giant cross-dresser is blocking the door.
 
MAN
Sorry to scare you. 
 
The old man takes his wig off. He looks surprisingly normal, 
50. CONTD                                                            50.
..respectable and well educated.
 
MAN
My name is Smiles - Doctor Smiles.
 
SMILES holds out his hand, but JOE and GEORGE dont know what to do, such is 
their terror. SMILES looks at the cross-dresser, then back at the boys and 
smirks.
 
SMILES
Sorry to frighten you with the wigs. We were just role-playing. 
 
SMILES points his thumb at the overweight cross-dresser at the door.
 
SMILES
(beat) Thats Jake - Gentle Jake. Dont worry about him, hes harmless  he 
couldnt hurt a fly.
 
At this Smiles smirks in a completely unnerving manner  JOE and GEROGE dont 
seem to get the joke. SMILES notices JOEs fear, and quickly tries to re-assure 
him.
 
SMILES
Dont be so afraid. Just sit down, and we can talk business.
 
Joe relaxes a little, and looks over at GEORGE, who relaxes too and tentatively 
sits down. JOE does the same. SMILES rubs his hands together, in anticipation 
for business, and sits down next to GEORGE. GEORGE feels uncomfortable, and 
SMILES wiggles next to him getting closer. JAKE walks into the room, and sits 
down on a chair, away from the others.
 
JOE
(abrubtly) Whats with the fucken drag? 
50. CONTD                                                           50.
SMILES
(laughing) So much anger for a young man! But Jake would beg to differ with you 
- for him its not drag, rather an expression of his true self.
 
And at that SMILES indiscreetly puts his hand on GEORGES thigh, and looks him 
square in the eye, giving him a pleasant smile. GEORGE frowns back, feeling 
extremely uncomfortable.
 
GEORGE
Um. Were here for drugs.
 
GEORGE looks down at SMILES hand, and then looks away. SMILES takes his hand 
away and blushes, but gives him a wink for consolation. GEORGE ignores this and 
tries to regain his composure.
 
JOE
Yeah. Party drugs. Not some fuckin poofy pick up. 
 
SMILES lets out a sinister laugh and shakes his head. He claps his hands 
together in a mock gesture of enjoyment.
 
SMILES
Of course! Party drugs. I mean what drugs arent for partying? You can even 
party on script drugs too you know?
 
JOE and GEORGE look at him strangely, not knowing what hes on about.
 
JOE
Are you..
 
SMILES
Dont talk. You two are probably thinking whats this crazy bastard on about. 
Well I know a lot about drugs - you 
50. CONTD                                                            50.
 
..know most anti-depressants have the same chemical componets as party drugs  
your speed and eccies - oh to be happy!
 
GEORGE
Are you saying , youre a doctor?
 
SMILES
You could say.
 
JOE
What sort?
 
SMILES
A doctor. (Smiles laughs to himself and mumbles as if hes talking to himself) I 
was a good doctor - a top doctor. (beat) An expert in my field. (then suddenly 
he proclaims)  A BITCH DOCTOR!
 
And at that SMILES laughs maniacally. He looks over at JAKE getting him to join 
in his delight, his face beetroot red from the laughter.
 
SMILES
A BITCH DOCTOR! GET IT, JAKE? A BITCH DOCTOR!
 
JAKE guffaws with SMILES. He continues laughing, trying to get JOE and GEORGES 
appreciation of his joke.
 
SMILES
Hahahah!! A bitch doctor boys. Get it?
 
The boys dont laugh, SMILES laughter quickly stops, he looks at 
50. CONTD                                                           50.
..them with scorn.
 
SMILES
You dont get it? You want your drugs? Ok - Ill get you your fucking drugs! 
JAKE!
 
SMILES swings his hands in command at JAKE.
 
SMILES
Go to the spare room and get the bag of pills.
 
JAKE nods and leaves the room. SMILES smiles wearily at JOE and then at GEORGE.
 
SMILES
Satisfied?
 
Both of them nod in silence, not sure what to do.
 
SMILES
I make the stuff myself you know?
 
SMILES grins at GEORGE again, still trying to flirt with him.
 
GEOGRE
Well I hope its good.
 
SMILES
The best!
 
SMILES gives GEORGE a seductive look, not letting him off for a minute. GEORGE 
looks away, and eyes JOE, he wants to get out quick too, hes feeling extremely 
uncomfortable. Suddenly JAKE enters the room, carrying a Glad-seal bag full of 
pills, and in his other hand a fresh syringe and vial of liquid. JOE smiles, and 
GEORGE relaxes a bit too, but notices the syringe. JAKE hands the pills to 
SMILES. SMILES examines them in the bag, admiring his stash.
 
50. CONTD                                                            50.
SMILES
Lovely. (beat) Ecstasy. 
 
He waves the bag at the boys.
 
SMILES
This is real good shit. Top stuff.
 
JOE
Well lets not stuff around.
 
GEORGE
How much?
 
SMILES
Hasty little buggers we are..
 
GEORGE 
No seriously - we dont have much time. We really have to go.
 
SMILES
I understand. (pause) Thirty each.
 
JOE and GEORGE look at each other. SMILES looks at them with a no-bullshit look. 
GEROGE nods to JOE, and JOE stands, fumbles in his pocket for the cash, and 
accidentally pulls out his mobile.
 
SMILES
You dropped..
 
JOE quickly picks it up and makes to dial, it takes SMILES a bit to notice this.
 
 
 
 
51. EXT  PATIO of the A-FRAME                  NIGHT       51.
 
TERRY is sitting with THUY the night is silent, stars everywhere. It is a 
beautiful moment. TERRY looks at her, she looks back, smiles and looks at her 
feet.
 
TERRY
I like sitting here with you.
 
THUY
Yeah. 
 
TERRY
No. I mean it. Tonight has been special.
 
There is silence between the two. THUY is waiting for him to say something. 
TERRY looks at her then looks away. Hes trying to spit it out, but seems 
conflicted with emotion.
 
TERRY
Look, I dont know how to say this any other way, or if you will accept it. But 
I want to say sorry.
 
THUY
Yeah.
 
TERRY
No, I mean it. SORRY. I mean it..
 
TERRY looks at her, crocodile tears welling up in his eyes.
 
TERRY
And I want to do anything to keep you happy.
 
She looks nonchalantly down at her feet dangling away. She looks at him, and he 
is holding her gaze. He puts his arm around her, and she submits, cuddling up to 
him. He gets teary. When his mobile starts to ring.
51. CONTD                                                            51.
TERRY
Shit.
 
He takes it out of his pocket, and the green light alerts him to the number its 
showing  - JOES number.
 
TERRY
 Hey, its Joe!
 
But before he can answer, it mysteriously stops. Startling both him and THUY.
 
TERRY
What?
 
He looks at THUY, confused. She looks back and smiles, her face a little teary. 
She shakes her head dumbfounded.
 
THUY
Theyre probably so stoned. 
 
TERRY puts his arm around her again and she snuggles up to him.
 
52. INT  WAITING ROOM                       NIGHT        52.
 
SMILES gets up and intercepts JOE dialing his friend.
 
SMILES
You dont need to call anyone
 
JOE startled resists him, but SMILES glares at him, and for some strange reason, 
stops the call.
 
SMILES
..We havent made the deal yet.
 
JOE looks back at him, and SMILES gives him a knowing smile. JOE, who seems very 
nervous, but trying to be cool at the same time, falls for the trick.
52. CONTD                                                           52.
JOE
Shit. I forgot. No drama.
 
JOE slowly pockets his mobile. He clumsily puts the cash down on the table, 
SMILES takes it, and quickly counts it. He throws over the bag of pills, and JOE 
gleefully pockets it. JOE looks over at GEORGE, they both know its time to go.
 
JOE
Cool. Now lets fuck out of here.
 
Before anyone can react, JOE has leaped out of his chair, and made a run for it 
out of the room. SMILES reacts swiftly. He pushes GEORGE awkwardly back on the 
chair, and pins him to it between his legs. GEORGE struggles with him, but he is 
too strong. SMILES doesnt seem worried, rather a gleeful excitement crosses his 
face, as we hear JOE screaming from outside the room.
 
JOE
Get out of my fucken way you sickos!
 
SMILES
(to struggling GEORGE) Hes not going anywhere. And neither are you.
 
SMILES is pinning GEORGE down, as GEORGE squirms and thrashes.
 
SMILE
Now, now little poofy boy. The more you squirm, the hornier I get!
 
GEORGE
You fucked up..
 
SMILES
Hush-hush, faggot! Most people would say that about types like you, in our 
homophobic world.
52. CONTD                                                            52.
At which point SMILES laughs psychotically. He continues to pin GEORGE down, and 
seems to be dry-humping him the way hes got him pinned between his legs. SMILES 
looks over to JAKE whos still holding the syringe. He waves for him to bring it 
over, which gives GEORGE a moment of freedom to punch SMILES in the stomach  
hard.
 
SMILES
Aaarrgh! You nasty little fag. 
 
SMILES punches him hard in the face a few times, as we hear GEORGE cry out in 
muffled agony. JAKE fixes the syringe with the liquid and hurriedly hands it to 
SMILES.
 
SMILES
This will calm you, little fuck!
 
SMILES injects GEORGE with the syringe, as we hear him cry out in terror, SMILES 
holding his hand over his mouth. GEORGES eyes darting madly as SMILES injects 
him, he screams, trying to fight the effects of the drug. There is still yelling 
and a commotion going on in the hallway. SMILES orders JAKE to investigate.
 
SMILES
Fix the problem out there will you.
 
53.  INT -  HALLWAY                          NIGHT        53.
 
JOE is fighting with LUCY and FRED. Hes punching FRED, but LUCY is tearing at 
his clothes. He swings and hits her in the face. She keels over in pain, and 
FRED jumps at him. JOE kicks him in the nuts, and punches him hard in the face, 
a sick crack, as FRED COVERS his nose agony and falls over. JOE lunges for the 
door, but its locked. Panic is all over his face, as LUCY gets up screaming at 
him like a crazed banshee, scratching at his face. 
54. INT  A-FRAME                            NIGHT        54.
 
TERRY is leading THUY through the TV room by the hand. PATTI and JESS are 
dancing erotically together, both of them seem pissed. SUZIE is sitting on one 
of the couches, looking drunk. Techno is still pounding through the room.
 
54. CONTD                                                            54.
PATTI
Woo-hoo. Lovers!
 
TERRY smiles cheezily at her, as they continue through the room.
 
PATTI
Have you heard anything from our boys?
 
TERRY
Yeah. Something weird. The phone rang. Then it stopped - weird.
 
THUY
(smiling) Theyll get here. You know how they are!
 
PATTI
Yeah. Fuckin Joe Rudjovic  - King Slack arse!
 
PATTI laughs as she goes over to JESS. She puts her arm, around her and they 
kiss, as they continue dancing. TERRY and THUY continue on to the parents room. 
TERRY grabs a candle and lights it, as they continue on into the room.
 
55. INT  A-FRAME PARENTS BEDROOM              NIGHT        55.  
They enter the room in candlelight, and find the bed.
 
THUY
Why dont you just use the light switch.
 
TERRY
(smiling) Imagination, girl.
 
TERRY is fumbling around the beside table on the double bed, looking for more 
candles.
55. CONTD                                                            55.
TERRY
Theres more around here somewhere..
 
 
TERRY keeps fumbling in the drawer.
 
TERRY
Choice! Found them!
 
He pulls out three fat candles, he hands one to THUY, and lights his. He lets 
her light the one shes holding, and the room is lit with a romantic ambience. 
THUY smiles appreciatively
 
THUY
Good idea.
 
But TERRY has better ideas, as he wraps his hands around THUYs waist, and draws 
her to him on the bed. They start kissing, tounges flaying, hands sliding over 
curves in horny, semi drunken lust.
 
THUY
Mmmmmmm..
 
56. INT  WAITING ROOM                     NIGHT            56.
 
SMILES has the unconscious GEORGE laid out on the row of chairs. He unzips 
GEORGEs pants and slides them off. He is in total rapture snickering to 
himself, as he runs his hands over GEORGEs bare legs. He straightens up and 
unbuckles his pants.
 
57. INT  HALLWAY                      NIGHT            57.
 
 JOE manages to violently shrug off LUCY, he turns, and runs literally into the 
fat bulking belly of JAKE, who looks down at him, his face an ugly mess of 
smeared make-up, his wig on his head at a weird angle. Terror is all over JOEs 
face, and in pure survival instinct, he kicks JAKE hard in the nuts. JAKE keels 
over in pain, but converts it into terrifying rage as he gets up, screaming like 
a wild dangerous animal. JOE bolts up the other end of hallway, his feet 
clomping on the wooden floor, but there is no exit. JAKE bears down on him like 
a wild boar, and with incredible and horrific stength he grabs JOE and lifts him 
over his head like 
57. CONTD                                                            57.
..a sack of potatoes. He turns around screaming, spit spraying out of his mouth, 
JOE above his head, thrashing around like a caught animal. In one swift move, 
JAKE brings JOE down over his knee, breaking his back with an horrific CRACK. 
JOES body convulses on the floor. FRED and LUCY, look at JAKE in awe. FRED is 
holding his bleeding nose
 
FRED
(blocked nose)Nill the shithead.
 
And at that JAKE brings his foot down on JOEs body, ending the thrashing. 
 
58. INT  the waiting room                NIGHT            58.
 
SMILEs is sodominsing the unconscious GEORGE, when furious knocking on the door 
interrupts him. 
 
SMILES
Hold on!
 
The knocking persists, then stops as LUCY barges into the room, turning on the 
light.
 
LUCY
We killed the other fuckin
 
She sees SMILES get off GEROGE, quickly pulling up his pants.
 
LUCY
You dirty piece of..
 
SMILES
Now, now, enough of that repressed..
 
She runs over to hit him, he waves her off, the way a child waves off an 
overbearing mother. She hesitates, and watches him button up the top button of 
his pants like a little boy. She laughs at him.
58. CONTD                                                            58.
LUCY
You really are pathetic.
 
SMILES cowers shamefully. He blushes, then rubs his face as he composes himself.
 
LUCY
Jakes fixed the other one.
 
SMILES rubs his face again, and suddenly his mood shifts from ashamed child to 
assertive adult.
 
SMILES
Well lets not waste time! Take him to the kitchen.
 
LUCY nods her head, and laughs at SMILES again as he composes himself.
59. INT  KITCHEN                      NIGHT             59.
 
There is the sound of an electric knife carving into flesh. JOEs body is laid 
out on a large butchers table. JAKE picks up a piece of the flesh, and throws in 
into an oily frying pan. FRED and LUCY look on as SMILES is smiling in glee.
 
SMILES
You know, children, the only urge stronger than the sexual urge is hunger.
 
LUCY
Good on you Sigfreid Fraud.
 
FREDDY laughs like an idiot, and LUCY laughs too, as JAKE carves off another 
piece of flesh, and lays in on the frying pan delicately.
 
LUCY
You know, even if you are a filthy, sick pervert, I still think youre a genius.
59. CONTD                                                            59.
SMILES
I already know that  but thanks anyway.
 
LUCY
But you know, they should have locked you away for fucking those wenches. If 
only they knew your true nature.
 
SMILES
Yeah, well be grateful you have me to look after you, provide food for you.
 
LUCy
Yeah right.
 
She laughs at him again. SMILES walk over to a cupboard in the kitchen, and 
rummages around, finally finding what hes after  a pair of binoculars. LUCY 
and FRED are eagerly watching JAKE cut more strips off JOEs body. There is 
blood and scraps of meat scattered on the floor. SMILES takes his binoculars and 
looks out the window.
60. INT  BINOCULAR VIEW                NIGHT             60.
 
The binoculars scan the woods, and finally focus on some light. The view zooms 
in to a window. There are two pretty girls dancing, another sitting in the 
corner drinking. SMILES licks his lips as he sees this.
 
61. INT  KITCHEN                      NIGHT             61.
 
SMILES puts down his binoculars and addresses his clan.
 
SMILES
Lets party!
 
As the sound of food sizzles behind him.
 
 
62. INT  A-frame TERRY PARENTS ROOM      NIGHT             62.
 
TERRY and THUY are really going for it now. THUY is on top of him. Shes 
stripped down to a tank top and white thong underwear. Shes grinding her crotch 
onto TERRY, in fact she has him pinned to the bed.
 
THUY
Mmmmmm..
 
TERRY
You feel so good.
 
TERRYs hand slide down over her back, a hand clutches her butt, and in a quick 
move he turns the tables, flipping THUY onto her back. He spreads her hands 
apart, pinning her to the bed in a Jesus Christ pose, and starts nuzzling at her 
neck, licking it, and moving down to her breast, gently biting her stiffening 
nipple through the fabric of her tank-top. THUY resists, breaking free of his 
hold, she wraps her hands around his head looking him passionately in the eyes.
 
THUY
Youre one hot guy, Terry McKenna.
 
And then shes at him, tongue kissing him in fierce passion, before dropping 
him, and fishing a condom out of her pocket. She throws it at him.
 
THUY
Get dressed!
63.  INt  A-frame TV ROom                NIGHT             63.
 
SUZIE is smashed on the couch, the bottle of Vodka in her hand practically 
empty. The techno music is pounding away, and JESS and PATTI have both taken 
their tops of and are dancing in their bras. PATTI has a black lacy one, JESS is 
wearing a see-thru CK tank top. SUZIE is a mess, she gets up, and wobbles across 
the makeshift dancefloor.
 
JESS
Uh-oh..
63. CONTD                                               63.
SUZIE
Im gonna spew. Quick
 
SUZIE stumbles through a door.
 
64. INT  A-FRAME  BATHROOM                NIGHT              64.
 
SUZIE turns on the light in the bathroom, splashing white glare into her eyes. 
She lunges for the toilet, flips up the lid, and vomits loud and hard. She 
continues to dry-retch, expelling the last of the bitter alcohol, when she 
thinks shes hears knocking. She rubs her forehead, and massages her temples, 
thinking its her head. She takes a breath, and goes over to the sink to wash 
her face. The sound is real - the knocking continues. She wipes her face clean.
 
65. INT  A-FRAME TV ROOM                NIGHT             65.
 
SUZIE barges into the room, which is still pounding with techno music. She tries 
to get the attention of JESS and PATTI, but instead walks over to the stereo 
system, and turns down the music.
 
PAtti
Hey!
 
SUZIE
Someones knocking, cant you hear it.
 
There is silence for a moment. PATTI looks back at SUZIE angrily, but then it 
starts, constant knocking.
 
JESS
Whos gonna get it.
 
66. INT  A-FRAME parents room           NIGHT             66.
 
TERRY is about to mount THUY, when there is knocking at the door to the room.
 
66. CONTD                                               66.
TERRY
Fuck!
 
He rolls off THUY, and puts on some pants. The knocking continues. 
 
TERRY
Yeah, yeah.
 
He opens the door, and its SUZIE, shes a mess, she sees THUY covering herself 
in the background, then looks back at TERRY.
 
SUZIE
Sorry.
 
TERRY
What.
 
SUZIE 
I think theres someone at the front door.
 
TERRY
Why didnt you get it?
 
SUZIE
Well its your..
 
TERRY
Whatever.
 
He puts on a shirt, and angrily brushes past SUZIE.
 
67. INT  A-FRAME  front door.              NIGHT           67.
 
TERRY approaches the door, as the knocking continues. 
 
TERRY
I wonder where the guys are?
67. CONTD                                                            67.
He looks at his watch. It shows 10 pm. He switches on the front light, and sees 
the silhouette of someone at the door. He unlocks it, and opens it, and is 
startled to see LUCY standing there, smiling at him, her missing tooth obvious 
in its absence.
 
LUCY
Hi.
 
TERRY
Ah..hi.
 
She sticks out her hand to shake, TERRY reluctantly takes it.
 
LUCY
My names Lucy. I just live next door. 
 
TERRY
Right.
 
LUCY
I heard all the doof, and just thought to tell youse all that theres a huge 
rave going on next door.
 
TERRY
Why dont you come in.
 
She smiles at him again, as she steps inside.
 
68. INT  A-FRAME  TV ROOM           NIGHT            68.
 
LUCY enters the room, and gives her toothy grin to the girls. The girls look at 
her as if she were a sideshow freak. LUCY picks up the negative vibe. She smiles 
again, but uncomfortably.
 
LUCY
My names Lucy.
68. CONTD                                               68.
TERRY
Shes our neighbour.
 
LUCY finds a seat and sits down. She looks at PATTI and SUZIE in a sinister way 
that unnerves both of them. She knows shes freaking everyone out, but she 
doesnt seem fazed by it.
 
LUCY
Were having a huge rave next door. Theres about 200 people from the area. 
 
JESS
No-one told us.
 
LUCY
Thats why I came here. Were a community around here, everyone knows what the 
other person is doing. You know? Everyone helps everyone else out. You know. Not 
like in the city, where youse all fuck each other over.
 
SUZIE
Hey, we come in peace.
 
LUCY
We have unreal parties here. You know, lots of drugs. Choof, and, and great 
mushrooms. I even brought some.
 
She takes out some dirty black mushroom from her hemp bag. And shows them to her 
curious audience, craving their acceptance.
 
JESS
Cool. You havent seen two guys around have you? One with short blonde hair. 
Trendy looking. The other black hair, little bum fluff beard
68. CONTD                                                            68.
LUCY
Do they drive a Japanese car? A red one.
 
JESS
Yes!   
 
LUCY
(awkwardly) Theyre at our place..
 
PATTI
I cant believe this!
 
SUZIE
(shaking her head) Typical.
 
PATTI
Can you believe it?
 
THUY enters the room sheepishly, shes dressed, and she smiles at LUCY. TERRY 
looks over at her.
 
TERRY
Well our missing persons are found.
 
THUY
What happened?
 
TERRY
Theyre over partying next door - believe it not  at some doof.
 
JESS
We should go get em.
 
TERRY
Hang on Ill try their mobile.
 
68. CONTD                                                            68.
 
LUCY looks at him, and then smiles as if nothings wrong. He rings the number, 
waiting for it to answer. Nothing happens.
 
TERRY
Can you believe it? They turned it off.
 
PATTI
Well weve got no choice..
 
TERRY
Ill go. Which of you want to come.
 
PATTI
I want to kick that Joes arse..
 
TERRY
OK. Patti and..
 
He looks at JESS, who nods her head.
 
TERRY
Suze youre in no condition, Thuy will look after you here. Ill leave the 
mobile with you.
 
He gives it to THUY, and looks at her.
 
TERRY
Well be back soon.
 
He gives her a peck on the lips.
 
TERRY
Promise.
 
THUY smiles cheekily at him and gives him a wink. He blows her a 
68. CONTD                                                            68.
..kiss and turns to leave.  LUCY gets up to leave, and JESS and PATTI follow her 
through the sliding glass door into the night. TERRY is the last one, waving 
goodbye to his beloved THUY.
 
69. EXT  FOREST                            NIGHT             69.
 
LUCY is at the head of the pack followed by JESS, PATTI and TERRY. They are 
walking through dark forest, LUCY has a torch and is guiding them through the 
darkness.
 
LUCY
Im so glad youse are coming to the doof! Youll have a great time, I promise 
you. Last time everyone was fucking trippin and we had a huge feast and 
bonfire.
 
TERRY
Sounds wild.
 
LUCY
It was more than wild.
 
JESS doesnt seem to agree, as she awkwardly trudges over a fallen tree and 
catches up with LUCY, as PATTI and TERRY follow behind her.
 
JESS
I dont like ferals.
 
LUCY
Whats wrong with ferals?
 
JESS
Most of them a liars.
 
LUCY
I think you dont know what youre talking about.
69. CONTD                                                        69.
JESS
I know. I went out with one. Two actually. Both of them stunk. Both of them were 
liars
 
LUCY
Well fucken dont come then!
 
JESS
Hey relax. Its just my opinion.
 
PATTI
Jess. 
 
PATTI looks over at LUCY to offer her consolation and diffuse the situation.
 
PATTI
Shes just ribbing ya. Dont take it personally.
 
LUCY
Yeah, well she can keep her fucken attitude to herself.
 
TERRY
Can we get to this doof, then?
 
LUCY looks back at them and smiles, but gives JESS a sneer before continuing.
 
LUCY
OK. He, were not far.
 
JESS
Yeah, but wheres the doof?
 
They keep walking through the darkness.
 
70. EXT  FOREST / GROUNDs OF THE HOUSE        NIGHT        70.
 
They continue to amble through the hills when TERRY noticed coloured lights 
sparkling through the trees.
 
TERRY
Look!
 
JESS
Where.
 
PATTI
Wow! How eerie.
 
LUCY
Were pratically there, just through this clearing..
 
LUCY guides them through some branches, and pretty soon they emerge from the 
forest into the grounds of the House. There is junk and broken down cars 
littering the grounds. The house is surrounded by string of coloured lights 
giving it a bizarre ambience, like a huge circus tent. PATTI notices GEORGEs 
car. She points to it, showing the others.
 
PATTI
Look. Theyre here!
 
JESS
Typical.
 
TERRY smells something, and looks up and sees smoke emerging from the chimney on 
the roof.
 
TERRY
Whats the smell? (SNIFFS) Smells like roasting pork..
 
LUCY answers him awkwardly.
 
LUCY
Its our chef. Hes cooking up 
70. CONTD                                                            70.
 
..some dinner for the feast. Everyones inside..theyre probably eating.
 
PATTI
Pretty quiet for a doof.
 
JESS
(sarcastically) Yeah. Pretty wild.
 
LUCY
Trust me, youll have the time of your lives..
 
LUCY guides them to the front door.
 
71. EXT  FRONT DOOR house                     NIGHT        71.
 
Suddenly from nowhere there is the sound of an obscure 50s song blaring from 
the house. The insane, high energy screams of JOK startle the modern young 
kids, who were expecting doof.
 
JESS
Whats this rock n roll bullshit?
 
LUCY
See? Party music.
 
JESS
(quietly to Terry) I dont like this at all.
 
LUCY knocks on the door and waits. From inside can be heard the whining sound of 
an old lady over the music. The kids looks at each other in surprise, when the 
door is answered by a creepy looking old lady.
 
71. CONTD                                                            71.
LADY
What took you so long?
 
LUCY 
I brought some friends to our party.
 
LADY
Oh sorry.
 
The LADY looks at them, and smiles.
 
LADY 
Well, come in.
 
They enter.
72. INT  hallway house                NIGHT             72.
 
The LADY is showing them into the house. The kids seem a little creeped by it 
as they follow her. The rock n roll is still blasting from a room somewhere. 
LUCY talks.
 
LUCY
The old lady is Sheila Smiles, the old grand mother goddess of the hills.
 
SHEILA turns around and smiles at the kids as they follow her.
 
PATTI
So our friends are here?
 
SHEILA
Yes. Theyre fine. I think the young chaps partied a bit too hard. Theyre 
upstairs watching TV.
 
JESS
Whats with the bullshit rock 
72. CONTD                                                            72.
..n roll?
 
SHEILA doesnt take too kindly to JESSS comment.
 
SHEILA
Bullshit? What would you know, you young.. (with disgust) Punkette?
 
JESS
More than you.
 
SHEILAS face turns red as she responds to JESSS rudeness.
 
SHEILA
Of course! Idiots like you wouldnt know the difference between real music and 
the sound of pigs fucking!
 
The kids look back at her startled. Even LUCY is startled. SHEILA notices this 
and suddenly changes her mood.
 
SHEILA
Hehe..Sorry to have scared you. Im getting on a bit. I forgot to take my 
tablet. Maybe I should turn that music down.
 
The kids are startled, not sure what is going on. SHEILA walks down the hallway 
and enters a room.
 
LUCY
Dont worry, shes just a cranky old lady.
 
There is the muffled sound of SHEILA yelling at someone.
 
SHEILA
You stupid fuckin clod! Its enough you fucked up already,
72. CONTD                                                           72. 
..you fuckup!
 
TERRY looks at PATTI who seems worried, JESS is creeped out by the strange 
behavior as well. LUCY notices this and gives them a nervous, toothless grin. 
Suddenly the music is switched off, and the sound of someone getting beaten is 
heard from the other room. Theres some whimpering.
 
SHEILA
You stupid fuckin moron! You got what you deserved!
 
One last thud is heard.
 
LUCY
Dont take her too seriously.
 
TERRY
Look we just want to get our mates and go.
 
LUCY is nervous, not sure how to handle the situation.
 
LUCY
Theyre here, its OK.
 
SHEILA emerges from the room, cursing.
 
SHEILA
Fucken kids, dont even know why I fucken had them in the first..
 
SHEILA looks up and notices everyone watching her, she changes her tune.
 
SHEILA
Place.
 
PATTI
Look, where are our friends?
72. CONTD                                                                 72.   
      
SHEILA
Theyre here. OK. Theyre just watching television.
 
SHEILA points down the hallway.
 
TERRY
(laughing) Fucken typical.
 
 
TERRY starts down the hallway, as PATTI skips quickly behind him, catching up. 
She intercepts the door before him, and grabs the door knob.
 
PATTI
Let ME surprise them.
 
JESS meets them. There is the cheesy sound of a TV emanating from inside.
 
PATTI
Theyre probably so stoned anyway.
 
She opens the door.
73. INT  TV ROOM                       NIGHT       73.
 
The sound of the TV is louder as they walk inside. The room is dark the only 
light coming from the TV. TERRY switches the light on, and there is someone in 
the chair in front of the TV.
 
PATTI
Good on you boys, leave the party and get too wasted to come..
 
PATTI is smiling as she walks up to the chair, expecting to see her friends, 
when she notices whats in the chair, she is speechless.
 
73. CONTD                                                            73.
PATTI
No. This isnt.
 
TERRY
Whats the matter?
 
PATTI is shaking in disbelief, speechless as TERRY walks up to the chair, 
swiveling it around in the chair is GEORGES corpse, a huge grin on his face, 
his eyes pinned and wide open, a syringe jabbed deep into his arm, which has 
gone a dark purple colour.
 
TERRY
I dont understand.
 
He looks over at PATTI who seems to have gone catatonic, JESS is in the room, 
not understanding whats going on, when she notices the body, and freaks out.
 
JESS
AAAaaaaaahhhhhhh!!!
 
Its all becoming too much for PATTI, who in a delirium, faints. TERRY looks 
over at JESS, tears welling up in his eyes, he cant understand the motiveless 
madness, and to make it all worse, FRED barges into the room, his eyes wild, his 
bloody nose taped up, a huge oaf with a wig is next to him, its JAKE. FRED grabs 
JESS, she fights with him, but he overpowers her, grabbing her in a vicious 
headlock. JAKE has grabbed TERRY in a bearhug, but he is of no match to his 
incredible strength. He has his hand over TERRYS mouth, TERRY is snorting, in 
terror, trying to breathe, snot flinging out of his nose. SHEILA enters the 
room, but her voice has changed.
 
SHEILA
Good, you got em.
 
SHEILA walks up to TERRYS terrified face and laughs crazily. She rips off her 
wig and smears her make up  its SMILES! He gives TERRY a crazed expression, and 
laughs
 
73.   contd                                                          73.
 
SMILES
Ha-ha! Sucked in!
 
TERRY and JESS are dragged out of the room, as SMILES walks over to the 
unconscious PATTI, he picks her up and carries her out.
 
74. INT  SMILES BEDROOM                 NIGHT             74.
 
SMILES is carrying the unconscious PATTI. SMILES flops her out on his bed. He 
goes over to a cabinet, and takes out a syringe, fills it with some chemical, 
and goes back to PATTI. He fixes her with the syringe. He rips open her shirt 
revealing her breasts, and he rubs his hands over them.
 
SMILES
Im such a fucking sexy guy. Mmmmmmmm.
 
He bends down and starts to kiss her nipples. Her body is completely limp. He 
rips off the rest of her clothes, and unzips his pants and mounts her. We see 
his room in greater detail. There are degrees and doctorate certificates all 
over the walls for his studies in psychiatry. There are old photographs of him 
in younger days, as well as certificates for outstanding work in various mental 
disorders. There are other things, not so noble - syringes littering the desk, 
bottle of drugs, and sexual aids, we hear him groaning away on PATTI as he rapes 
her, when suddenly his door is kicked open. Hes startled and looks up to see 
LUCY, he fumbles to get his pants buttoned up.
 
LUCY
You dirty sick fuck!
 
SMILES is pathetic in his attempt to button up his pants, and LUCY lunges at 
him.
 
LUCY
You fucking scumbag!
 
SMILES waves his hand out to fend her off. LUCY stands off, and laughs at him as 
he buttons himself up like a little boy caught by his mother reading a skin mag.
74.   contd                                                          74.
 
LUCY
Remember youre not a doctor anymore you SICKO. You a fuckin nutcase like the 
rest of us.
 
SMILES
Now you shut up!
 
LUCY
No. Fuck you Graham!
 
SMILES
Shut up you bitch. You forget that Im the only man who can help you. 
 
LUCY
Help. Hah!
 
SMILE
Youre showing your true colours now arent you. All that repressed anger 
against men. Your bastard step father really made a good bitch out of you.
 
LUCY
Shut up Graham.
 
SMILES
And you just continually find someone to lay it on
 
LUCY
I said shut up you..
 
smiles
It was me who rescued you from a life of guilt, shame, self hate, anger..
 
And at that LUCY cracks, she starts hitting and scratching him 
74. CONTD                                                            74.
..about the head. SMILES lifts his hands to fend her off.
 
LUCY
Aaaaa! You fucking sick pig!
 
SMILES
Thats it let it out, let it out..
 
LUCY keeps hitting him. He doesnt fight back. She pushes him to the ground, and 
pins him there between her knees.
 
SMILES
Let it out. Come on. (pants)
 
SMILES closes his eyes as she continues to hit him and slap his face. He seems 
to be..enjoying it..!
 
SMILES
Mmm..thats it. Feel better. Better.
 
She slows down her beating. Her breath and anger subsiding, and a cheeky, evil 
grin comes across his face.
 
LUCY
You bastard. You..You fuckin like it.
 
She slaps him one hard and square in the face. His smile disappears, when FRED 
and JAKE storm in. FRED is edgy and agitated, JAKE is his usual slow lumbering 
self.  
 
FRED
Im fuckin hungry!
 
SMILES grabs a lock of LUCYS hair, and violently pulls her head back. LUCY 
screams like a wild banshee, and swings a wild blow that hits SMILES on the side 
of the head. He falls to the ground, his hand covers his head, trying to block 
the pain.
 
74. CONTD                                                            74.
FRED
Fuck off you stupid cow!
 
LUCY
You fuck out of it spastic.
 
She attacks SMILES again. Hes cowering, putting on an act to get sympathy from 
FRED or even better, JAKE. LUCY is relentless, hitting and scratching him.
 
SMILES
(wimpy voice) Help me!
 
LUCY keeps attacking. FRED and JAKE look at each other dumbfounded, when JAKE 
suddenly grabs LUCY hard by the wrist. She tries to resist, but he wraps his 
huge arms around her, lifting her off the ground. Shes kicking and screaming, 
trying to resist him, but hes way too strong.
 
LUCY
Fuck you all!
 
SMILES gets up slowly. He zips up his fly, and pats himself down. He walks over 
over to LUCY and hocks a big dirty gob in her face. It drips down her nose like 
a slug.
 
SMILE
Fucking bitch!
 
LUCY goes mad, trying everything to break free, but JAKE holds her tight. 
Suddenly SMILES starts poking and harassing LUCY.
 
SMILE
Femmo slut. Nyah! Nyah! Nyah! All men are pigs!
 
He lunges at her again, but JAKE turns and sticks his foot out pushing SMILES 
away, protecting LUCY. SMILES gives JAKE a stern look, and JAKE looks back at 
him, hes not going to take any shit. SMILES looks away. SMILES gives LUCY a 
stern dirty look.
 
74. CONTD                                                            74.
SMILES
Repressed lesbian.
 
SMILES looks back at the limp body of PATTI on the couch, then over at FREDDY, 
whos standing there, looking confused. He points over at PATTI.
 
SMILES
Take that down to the kitchen if youre hungry.
 
75.  INT  the dark room                 NIGHT             75.
 
TERRY and JESS are on the floor tied up in a dark room. Their heads are covered 
with dirty pillow cases. TERRY is contorting on the floor. Hes doing something. 
JESS is still. His wrists are moving, hes trying to free himself from the 
plastic wiring, but they just cut into his wrists. He hears footsteps, then 
plays dead. The door opens letting in light. Its LUCY. She turns on the lights.
 
LUCY
Those fucking bastards.
 
LUCY is crying and agitated. She bends down and takes off TERRYS hood. He looks 
at her terrified. She gives him her toothless smile, and shes still crying.
 
LUCY
They wont get away with this. Smiles, hes gonna die. 
 
She looks over at JESS. 
 
TERRY
Can you help us?
 
LUCY
I cant
 
TERRY
Please. We can help you. Help you get away from here.
 
LUCY 
Everyone says that.
 
LUCY gets up and looks down at both of them.
 
LUCY
The bastard leaves you alone in the dark.
 
For some strange reason she takes a candle from her pocket. She lights the 
candle and plops it in cup.
 
LUCY
This is so you dont get too scared. Jakell get you soon. I cant do anything. 
But at least you wont be in the dark.
 
LUCY turns out the light and closes the door. The candle the only light in the 
room. TERRY makes his move and wriggles across the room.. to the candle. He 
holds his wrists up to it, melting the plastic wire until it breaks  hes 
almost there. He takes the candle and melts the plastic binding his feet  free! 
He goes over to JESS, and starts to melt hers.
 
76. int  the kitchen                       night             76.       
LUCY walks back into the kitchen in a folorn miserable state. PATTI is propped 
on the floor, unconscious. JAKE is doing the dishes and FRED is sitting at the 
table, giggling and talking to himself. SMILES notices her.
 
SMILES
Where have you been.
 
LUCY
Nowhere.
76. CONTD                                                           76.
SMILES
Bullshit.
 
FRED
She feels sorry for them.
 
LUCY
Get fucked you!
 
LUCY glares at FRED.
 
FRED
Aw. Sooky-sook.
 
SMILES
She cant help it, shes a woman. I never could understand them.
 
LUCY
You shut-up you dirty prick!
 
SMILES
Here we go, showing your true colours again Lucy, getting back at daddy.
 
LUCYs eyes are burning now, the anger on her face is intense, shes shaking.
 
LUCY
Thats bullshit. All of it. You just say that because you know it hurts. Im 
stronger than you, you shit!
 
SMILES starts laughing.
 
SMILES
Grrrr! Riot grrl! Hahah.
76. CONT.                                                             76.
He pokes his tounge at her.
 
SMILES
Blow me!
 
LUCY
Blow yourself you sick fuck. You just love the control dont you. It makes you a 
man in your fucking head. But youre just fucked up like us.
 
SMILES
Ohhh..stirrer!
 
While theyre arguing, PATTI has woken up from her drugged state. Terror in her 
eyes is quickly replaced by instinct. She sees an open door, and quickly plays 
dead. LUCY meanwhile loses it, she jumps at SMILES again, going for his throat.
 
LUCY
I swear youll die you shit!
 
She grabs his throat and tries to fend her off, but shes strong. FREDDY tries 
to pry her off, and an awkward struggle emerges. JAKE turns away from his 
dishes, and intervenes, trying to pry LUCY off him.
 
JAKE
Omm-blah..offa her.
 
SMILES
Get her off me!
 
The fracas gives PATTI her break, as she quickly scurries out the door.
 
77. INT -  HOUSE HALLWAY            NIGHT            77.
 
PATTI is on her feet, but the drugs havent worn off, and her sense of balance 
is horribly affected. She struggles against it, 
77. CONTD                                                            77.
..falling about the hallway, which seems infinitely long. She scratches at a 
door, but breaks down in tears, the drugs have fucked her up too badly, she 
cant resist their effect, the psychotic yelling and screaming from the kitchen 
making everything more disorientating.
 
78. INT  KITCHEN                    NIGHT             78.
 
LUCY and SMILES and FRED are locked in a clumsy embrace, and even JAKE is 
struggling to pull them apart, such is the ferocity of LUCYS anger. They keep 
struggling, when FRED looks around the room  to the spot where PATTI was. Hang 
on, shes gone!
 
FRED
Fuckin hell!
 
LUCY is still clutching at SMILES, practically choking him.
 
FRED
Dinners gone!
 
SMILES head shakes, as he spits out some words.
 
SMILES
Arrrghhrreettt!
 
JAKE finally breaks LUCYS hold, she falls onto the ground in a heap, panting. 
SMILES is panting too, his face red, he rubs at his neck.
 
SMILES
Fuckin had enough slut? (he rubs his neck more, and glares over at FRED and 
JAKE) Dont stand there, get em! (he points to FRED) You go and check the 
others upstairs.
 
JAKE runs out of the room first, then FRED as their movements are heard up the 
hallway. SMILES glares at LUCY splayed on the floor, her size showing.
 
78. CONTD                                               78.
SMILEs
You fat cow.
 
All LUCY can do is sob. From the hallway can be heard the horrified screeching 
of PATTI as JAKE corners her.
 
PATTI
Please. Dont kill me..Please..
 
Another chilling screech is heard. And then a dull thud. More screaming. A 
heavier thud. A crack. Guttural groans. SMILES looks at LUCY, he doesnt seem 
impressed. He goes over to the doorway, inspecting what happened down the hall. 
We can hear him yelling at JAKE sarcastically.
 
SMILES
Good on you Jake. A sterling display of intelligence. You had to fucking kill 
the bitch.
 
LUCY is panting in the corner, she has a look of dismay. Things are fucking up.
 
79. INT  DARK ROOM                  NIGHT            79.
 
FRED barges into the room.
 
FRED
Time to get fucked up kids
 
He looks in the darkness, notices the flickering candle.
 
FRED
Hang on..
 
TERRY jumps on him, grabs him in a headlock, and jabs his pocket knife numerous 
times into FREDS throat. FRED stumbles about the room, blood jetting from his 
throat, pouring over his hands and he tries to stop the bleeding. He falls to 
the ground in a gurgling heap, thrashing about, trying to fight off his imminent 
death. They make a run for it.
 
80. INT  upstairs HALLWAY                   NIGHT        80.
 
TERRY and JESS run down the hallway, they find an open room and go inside.
 
81. INT  ROOM                          NIGHT        81.
 
TERRY and JESS are in the room. Looking around for an escape. JESS points to a 
window.
 
JESS
There.
 
The scurry over, and TERRY struggles with it. The lock wont budge.
 
TERRY
Its fuckin gummed.
 
He takes out his knife and starts working the window.
 
82. INT  KITCHEN                      NIGHT        82.
 
JAKE is dragging PATTIS battered body into the kitchen. LUCY is standing, 
rubbing her chest as she recovers. SMILES looks over at JAKE.
 
SMILES
Good boy. But weve got to think about how were gonna clean this mess up.
 
LUCY
Were not. Were fucked.
 
SMILE 
Oh shut up will you.
82. CONTD                                                            82.
 
LUCY angrily pokes here tounge out at him.
 
SMILES
Wheres Fred with the other two?
 
His question is interrupted by the sound of breaking glass, and footsteps 
upstairs.
 
SMILES
Shit!
 
SMILES runs out of the room, JAKE and LUCY scurry after.
 
83. INT  UPSTAIRS HALLWAY                      NIGHT        83.
 
The three of them run up the stairs, SMILES in front. He comes to the door of 
the dark room and enters it.
84. INT  DARK ROOM                          NIGHT        84.
 
SMILES walks in. The room is silent. He notices the candle flickering away, 
nearly going out.
 
SMILES
What?
 
He keeps walking, and steps on something squishy.
 
SMILE
Oh shit
 
He looks down, and in the flickering light, can barely make out FREDDYS body on 
the floor. He acts quick.
 
SMILES
Get those fuckers.
84. CONTD                                                            84.
 
They barge out of the room.
85. INT  ROOM                          NIGHT            85.
 
TERRY is smashing away at the broken glass of the window, and is helping JESS 
through it.
 
TERRY
Cmon, quick
 
Her legs are though, and shes away. But as soon as shes out, he is startled by 
the light in the room coming on. SMILES and JAKE are standing at the doorway.
 
SMILES
Surprise!
 
TERRY is squeezing through the window, when a jagged piece of glass cuts deep 
into his leg.
85.     contd                                                85.
TERRY
Aaaaaahh!!!
 
JAKE pounces fast.
 
86. EXT  FRONT of THE HOUSE                   NIGHT             86.
 
JESS drops down from the window. She looks up, there is screaming coming from 
the window. She runs off into the forest. Terry is dragged back inside. Screams 
of horror are heard. Then a few dull thuds. Then silence.
 
87. INT  TERRYS PARENTS PLACE              NIGHT             87.
 
THUY and SUZIE are sitting in the lounge room at TERRYS parents place. They are 
getting restless.
87. CONTD                                                            87.
 
THUY
Where are they?
 
SUZIE
Theyll come back.
 
THUY gets up and looks out the sliding window door that overlooks the patio.
 
THUY
Can we call them?
 
SUZIE
No phone.
 
THUY
Shit and they took the mobile. Fuck!
 
SUZIE
We can go to the shop and call them.
 
THUY looks out the window again, hesitates then faces SUZIE.
 
THUY
You go. Ill stay here, if they come back.
 
88. INT  SPARE ROOM OF THE HOUSE              NIGHT            88.
 
JAKE drags TERRYS body out of the room. LUCY is standing at the doorway, SMILES 
is glaring at her.
 
SMILES
Were fucked now. You happy?
 
LUCY looks forlornly at her feet.
88. CONTD.                                                           88.
SMILES
See what happens when you dont listen!
 
LUCY starts to sulk.
 
SMILES
Thats it. You weak piece of shit. Cry. Because youre not getting away with 
this. Youre gonna go down with all of us. Youre trapped. Thats kids gotten 
away, and were all fucked. Theyll put you in a prison, with a pack of lezzos 
like you and you can live happily ever after.
 
LUCY
Leave me alone!
 
SMILES
(mockingly) Leave me alone! Leave me alone! 
 
SMILES looks at her with deadly scorn.
 
SMILES
You move your fat arse, and get the rest of them. You hear!
 
LUCY continues to sob.
 
SMILES
YOU HEAR!
 
She nods in defeat.
 
89. EXT  FOREST                       NIGHT            89.
 
JESS is running through the forest at night. She stumbles over a fallen branch 
and trips. Terror is in her eyes.
 
90. EXT  FRONT OF THE HOUSE                   NIGHT             90.
 
LUCY walks out of the front door with an axe. The moonlight glimmers off the 
steel blade. Her eyes are wild. She tramps toward the forest.
 
91. EXT  FOREST                            NIGHT             91.
 
JESS gets up, shes sobbing. She moves everything is instinct. She keeps 
running, when she hears yelling in the distance.
 
LUCY
Im gonna get ya. Hahahah!!!!
 
JESS looks around in terror, but continues running through the darkness. She 
looks up at the full moon, hoping that theres some way out of this insanity. 
She keeps moving, scratches her arm on an overhanging branch, she cries out in 
pain. 
 
92. EXT  FOREST                            NIGHT        92.
 
LUCY hears the voice of a girl screaming. She smiles to herself. Her prey is not 
far away. She moves on.
 
93. EXT  FOREST                            NIGHT             93.
JESS stumbles through the darkness, when she sees a glimmer of hope in front of 
her. The lights to TERRYS parents place. She follows them.
 
JESS
Yes!
94. EXT  DRIVEWAY/FRONT OF TERRYS PARENTS HOUSE     NIGHT        94.
 
SUZIE drives off in the car, and THUY is standing alone in the driveway, 
watching the red taillights of the car get swallowed up in the night. She slowly 
makes for the front of the house, when
94. CONTD                                                            94.
 ..she hears a rustling in the woods. She turns around. No-one there. She 
continues towards the house when she hears a crack of some bracken, and then 
some intense sobbing. Its JESS, she running and stumbling from the woods, her 
clothes are torn and dirty, there is a scratch on her arm. Shes hysterical.
 
JESS
We have to get away. 
 
But as THUY approaches her, she is startled by something more horrific behind 
JESS.
 
THUY
JESS!
 
As LUCY emerges from the forest. JESS sees the look on THUYS face, and turns 
around, but LUCY is too quick, and swinging an axe, kills JESS in one swift 
strike. Her body drops to the ground. THUY runs to the house, LUCY in pursuit.
 
LUCY
Sorry, Im gatecrashing.
 
95. INT  TERRYS HOUSE                   NIGHT            95.
 
THUY looks the door, and runs into the kitchen. She goes through the drawers, 
knifes, forks, she finds a cleaver, sizes it up but drops it  not enough 
against an axe. A thud is heard from the front door.
 
96. EXT  FRONT DOOR                     NIGHT            96.
 
LUCY is axing the door. The axe gets stuck, she fumbles to pry it off, but yells 
to whoevers inside.
 
LUCY
You didnt invite me. So Im gatecrashing! Hahah.
 
She finally pries the axe free, and has another swing.
97. INT  TERRYs HOUSE/ HALLWAY             NIGHT             97.
 
THUY looks down the hallway to see the gleaming of axe poke through the front 
door, as LUCY continues to axe at it. She sees a door that leads down to the 
garage, open, and hurries into it, closing it behind her.
98. INT  GARAGE                            NIGHT            98.
 
The garage is dark and creepy. She flicks on a flourescent light which takes a 
few flashes before it holds, though only faintly. She looks around. She sees a 
rake. No good. A hacksaw. Still no good. She looks on the shelves. Nothing. When 
suddenly she sees a hessian sack covering something. She pulls the sack off, and 
underneath is a barely used Stihl chainsaw. She checks it for petrol, and is 
relieved to find it full. She tugs at it trying to get it started.
 
99. EXT/INT  FRONT DOOR                NIGHT           99.
 
LUCY gives the door one final swing and the lock flings away. She kicks the door 
open.
 
LUCY
Wheres the party?
 
There is silence, as LUCY starts to stalk throughout the house, starting at the 
kitchen.
 
LUCY
No music. No people. Someones gotta be here?
 
She grins to herself. She goes to one of the bedrooms, and kicks open the door.
 
LUCY
Sprung!
 
She switches on a light, to see an empty bed.
 
LUCY
I think I interrupted 
99. CONTD                                               99.
 
..something.
 
LUCY walks out. She walks past the door to the garage, and hears a puttering 
sound. She smiles to herself, shes found her prey.
 
LUCY
Sorry to get you out of bed..
 
LUCY fumbles with the handle. Its locked. She takes a swing at the door with 
the axe.
 
LUCY
..but Im here to wake you up!
 
She has a few more swings at the door, before it finally gives way. She runs 
down the stairs screaming like a madperson in a bid to terrify her victim, and 
sees..
 
100. INT  GARAGE                       NIGHT         100.
 
THUY getting the chainsaw fired up. Lifting it up in defiance, smiling at her. 
LUCY turns white.
 
LUCY
Aiiieeeeeee!!!
 
LUCY swings her axe, but its no match for THUY who catches her mid-swing with 
the chainsaw. The axe falls impotently to the ground.
 
100.     contd                                           100.
 
LUCY
You wont do it..
 
But there is a crazed grin on THUYS face that says otherwise as she moves in 
for the kill.
101. INT  THE HOUSE/ Waiting room           NIGHt            101.
 
SMILES is in the room, looking through some binoculars. JAKE is sitting on one 
of the couches next to him, idling.
 
SMILES
Fucking dumb bitch is taking her time.
 
He looks through the binoculars, and scan the grounds. He sees JESSs beheaded 
body in the front lawn, and then the front door axed down.
 
SMILEs
Looks like shes done something..
 
He continues scanning the grounds, and notices one of the cars has gone.
 
SMILES
Fuck!
 
JAKE
Uloogla?
SMILES
One of thems fucked off. Not good.
 
JAKE
Mini-oomboo giki.
 
SMILES
No. 
 
SMILES ponders a moment.
 
101.     contd                                         101.
 
SMILES
Go to the store. Give those fuckers a welcome theyll never forget.
 
JAKE nods and leaves. SMILES hears the front door close.
 
SMILES
(smiles to himself) No one here gets out alive!
 
He hears JAKE start up a truck, and drive off. Hes grinning to himself, and 
goes back to his binoculars.
 
SMILEs
Now all we do is clean up the mess, like nothing ever happened.
 
Hes still grinning as he scans the grounds. He goes back to the axed down front 
door, over to the car thats still remaining, when he sees a horrific sight  
Thuy carrying a chainsaw. His smile drops to a frown.
 
SMILES
Shit.
 
HE drops the binoculars, and starts to panic. He runs to the front door and 
opens it.
 
SMILES
Jake..
 
 But his car is gone. SMILES slams the door shut and walks back up the hall 
toward the stairs.
 
SMILES
Fuck!
 
102. INT  SMILES BEDROOM                 NIGHT         102.
 
SMILES runs into his bedroom. He runs to a closet, and rummages through it, 
pulling out an old double barrel shotgun. He looks in the closet again, and 
pulls out an old box of bullets, he nervously loads it.
 
SMILEs
No fuckers gonna stop me.
 
But he seems worried. He looks at the gun with apprehension, not sure if it 
works, but he feels empowered anyway.
 
SMILE
A chainsaws no match for a gun.
 
He runs out of the room.
 
103. INT  HALLWAy/STAIRCASE                   NIGHT            103.
 
SMILES scurries down the stairs, heading for the kitchen.
 
104. INT  KITCHEN                       NIGHT            104.
 
SMILES goes through the cutlery draws looking for a backup weapon. Nothing. He 
opens an appliance draw, and finds a battery operated electric carving knife. He 
holds it up, its makes an almost insect like noise as he checks that it works. 
It does. He slides it in his back pocket. He turns out all the lights in the 
house, and hides, waiting for THUY.
 
105. EXT  FRONT OF THE HOUSE              NIGHT            105.
 
THUY arrives. She looks crazed, and angry - a total contrast from the young girl 
who works in a clothing store. She scans the house, there are no lights. She 
walks to the front door.
 
106. EXT  FRONT DOOR                     NIGHT           106.
 
THUY stands at the front door.
 
THUY
I know youre in there, whoever you are.
 
There is silence.
 
THUY
And no matter what happens. You are going to pay.
 
She fires up the chainsaw, and starts hacking down the door.
 
107. EXT/INT -      ENTRANCE HALLWAY            NIGHT            107.
 
THUY walks into the hallway. Shes breathing heavily. The hallway is dark, she 
tries a light switch, but it doesnt work.
 
THUY
I dont know where, or who you are. But Ill find you. And Ill kill you. I 
dont care anymore. I have no fear.
 
She comes to a doorway to the left, she opens the door. Its the waiting room 
she looks inside. Theres just chairs, and the table, littered with psychology 
magazines. She looks at them queerly. 
 
THUY
Who are these sick fucks?
 
In a fit of anger, she chainsaws the table in half.
 
THUY
How will the shrinks explain that?
107. CONTD                                                         107.
 
She walks back into the hallway.
 
 
108. INT  HALLWAY                      NIGHT            108.
 
THUY stalks down the hallway, the chainsaw in her hands.
 
THUY
I know someone is here. I can feel it. (beat) Smell it.
 
109. INT  BATHROOM UPSTAIRS                NIGHT            109.
 
SMILES is sitting in a bathroom in the dark. Hes smiling to himself. But he 
sniffs his armpit at THUYs remark.
 
110. INT  HALLWAY                      NIGHT            110.
 
THUY walks past another door, and opens it. Its the kitchen, she walks in..
 
111. INT  KITCHEN                      NIGHT            111.
 
..and turns the light on, and is horrified to see JOES partly mangled body, 
laid out on a table. 
 
THUY
Aaiiiiiieeeeee!!
 
112. INT  BATHROOM                     NIGHT      112.
 
SMILES laughs to himself. She covers his mouth, but cannot suppress some snot 
and dribble than flies from his mouth.
 
113. INT  KITCHEN                      NIGHT            113. 
THUY runs from the room, and closes the door behind her. Shes 
113. CONTD                                                       113.
 
..terrified. Gagging and coughing from the sight shes just seen. She starts to 
vomit, and cry, letting it all out. She composes herself, her eyes are filled 
with madness, she revs up the chainsaw loud and clear.
 
THUY
Whoever or whatever you are. I am going to fucking kill you.
 
114. INT  STAIRWAY                     NIGHT            114.
 
THUY runs up the stairs, and comes across a closed door, she opens it without 
fear, and walks inside.
 
115. INT  SMILES BEDROOM                 NIGHT            115.
 
THUY is inside SMILES room. There is a large bed in the middle of the room, some 
closets to the side of it, and a large mirror dresser to the other. The lights 
surrounding the dresser are on, casting a weird, perverse glow. THUY notices a 
collection of framed certificates pinned to the wall, she looks at them. Graham 
P. Smiles -Doctorate of Psychiatry Honours says one, Master of Psychology 
another. She looks through the drawers in the dresser, and finds dildos, 
handcuffs, cock-rings, and underneath it all pulls out a notebook. She looks 
through it and finds newspaper articles. One article has the heading An abuse 
of trust. She looks through the articles, and pieces together a terrible story 
of a psychiatrist who abused his patients, destroyed the minds and identities of 
people in need. She is now deep in his lair, his dungeon.
 
THUY
No, this cant be true..
 
SMILES
It is.
 
SMILES appears at the door, holding his rifle. THUY is startled, she holds her 
chainsaw tight.
 
SMILEs
Its rude to look through other peoples belongings.
115. CONTD                                                          115.
 
THUY
Rude?
 
SMILES
Yes. And its even ruder not inviting your neighbours to your party.
 
THUY
Are you fucking crazy..?
 
SMILES
Some may say. (smiles evily) But thats besides the point. Wheres your caring 
sharing spirit. Or is it something your generation seem to lack  respect.
 
THUY
Youre fucked. What respect should we show you. 
 
SMILES
The sixties was such a good time.
 
THUY
Listen fuckhead, whatever youre trying to get at is shit. And besides, Im not 
a hippy, Im a punk.
 
She revs the chainsaw.
 
THUY
And I hate your fucking guts.
 
SMILES laughs, but hes stopped playing his little mind game. He holds up his 
rifle and pulls the trigger, aiming it across the room, square at THUY. She 
stops in her tracks.
 
115. CONTD                                                          115.
SMILES
Now turn it off.
 
THUY, in fear, obeys.
 
SMILES
Drop it.
 
She does. Shes trembling, SMILES finger, slowly curls around the trigger, a 
gleeful smile on his face.
 
SMILES
Do you have anything you want to tell me?
 
THUY
Go fuck yourself, you sick piece of shit.
 
SMILEs
(laughs in ridicule, then speaks in a girly voice) Awww..sticks and stones may 
break my bones, but words will never harm me  Im a pyschaitrist remember.
 
