

<!--

/*
Break-out-of-frames script
By Website Abstraction (http://wsabstract.com)
Over 400+ free scripts here!
Above notice MUST stay entact for use
*/

if (window!= top)
top.location.href=location.href
// -->

Rambo First Blood Part II

























                 RAMBO: FIRST BLOOD PART II








                             by

                    Sylvester Stallone

                            and

                       James Cameron













                   Final Shooting Script







FADE IN:

OPENING MONTAGE - DAY

The film opens with a brief MONTAGE of "First Blood,"
culminating in the police station... Rambo is confronted
by Trautman, who tells Rambo his personal war is over.

                         RAMBO
          Nothing is over!!!


EXT.  ROCK QUARRY - DAY

A massive explosion that blows dust into the SHOT OF THE
SUN.  PANNING DOWN, we are at a quarry where twenty-five
hardened criminals are slowly revealed by still MOVING
CAMERA.  All the well-built men wear the same federal
prison clothing.  Most wear tattered tank tops with a
large "P" stenciled on the back... Five armed guards
watch over the convicts.

We finally PAN ACROSS the rising and falling of picks and
shovels, ARRIVING on a wide back with an array of scars.
SLOWLY MOVING UP the back, we reveal RAMBO swinging a
sledge hammer onto an iron wedge sunk into the white rock
quarry.

Rambo continues to pound away with deft strokes, finally
splitting the rock.  He lets his hammer rest at his side
and turns to look up at the nearest guard.  He nods.  The
guard nods back and Rambo turns and moves to a water
bucket.

He waits for a black convict to finish drinking out of a
ladle that is attached to a large bucket.

CLOSEUP - RAMBO

drinking and pouring a ladleful over the back of his neck.

                         VOICE
          John Rambo?

Rambo looks up at a pair of PRISON GUARDS whose faces and
bodies are nearly indistinguishable because of the bright
sun that backlights them with a hellish glow.

                         PRISON GUARD
          Follow me...


EXT.  ROCK QUARRY - DAY

Rambo is led toward the top of the quarry, flanked by the
two Prison Guards, passing the prisoners working away...
Suddenly, TRAUTMAN steps into view, blocking Rambo's path.

                         TRAUTMAN
          How've you been, Johnny?

Rambo nods and stares into Trautman's eyes.  The silence
is shattering.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing, to the
                   Prison Guards)
          That's all... Thanks.

The Guards move off.

Rambo continues his stare.  Trautman, a little
uncomfortable, continues.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing)
          I'm sorry you were sent to such a
          hellhole.

                         RAMBO
          Seen worse.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You have... haven't you...

                         RAMBO
          Yeah.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Johnny... I told you I'd help you
          when I could... you interested?

Rambo looks off at the distance, watching the Guards hang
around off to the side.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing, taken
                   aback)
          You can't possibly want to stay in
          prison for another five years?

                         RAMBO
          ... In here I know where I stand.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Hear me out first.  A covert
          operation is being geared up in the
          Far East.  The computer dug out your
          name as one of the top three able to
          accomplish the mission.

                         RAMBO
          What mission?

                         TRAUTMAN
          Recon for P.O.W.'s in Nam.

                         RAMBO
          Why me?

                         TRAUTMAN
          The prison camp you escaped from in
          '71 is the target area -- no one
          knows that terrain better than you.
          The risk factor is very high.
          You'll be temporarily reinstated in
          the forces; and if the operation is
          successful, there may be a
          Congressional pardon... are you in,
          John?

Rambo's eyes turn into Trautman's.  He nods his
acceptance.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing)
          Good.  I'll get the necessary
          clearances, and the next time we'll
          meet, it'll be in Thailand with
          Special OP's designate who will
          honch the operation.  All clear?

Trautman shakes Rambo's hand and starts to turn away.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing, pausing)
          I want you to know I did what I
          could to keep you out of here.

Rambo nods... He believes him...

                         RAMBO
          I know.

Trautman starts to leave.

                         RAMBO
                  (continuing)
          Sir... Do we get to win this time?

                         TRAUTMAN
          This time it's up to you.

Trautman studies Rambo's calm expression.

Trautman nods, leaving Rambo with a sense of miraculous
rebirth.

                                            DISSOLVE TO:

EXT.  BKK (BASE CAMP LOC.)

Golden Buddha -- CRANE UP to helicopter as it flies by
overhead.

CREDIT SEQUENCE - SUNRISE

The SOUND OF A CHOPPER is heard and slowly the chopper's
blades slash INTO VIEW.  The chopper first moves across
the city of Bangkok, then past the canals... It passes
over temples, farmland and oxen.  Over rice paddies and
ascends into the clouds hovering above the vast rain
forests.


INT.  JET RANGER - DAY - SUNRISE

Rambo gazes out the window.


EXT.  THAILAND JUNGLE AND RICE FIELDS - SUNRISE

In a rollercoaster movement, the chopper clears the
mountain top and descending through the morning haze, we
see below a military base once used during the war.  It
still has several buildings standing and hangers line an
airstrip.  The majority of base is Thai Army with the far
end being reserved for American military.


EXT.  BASE CAMP - DAY

Rambo's chopper lands in a fury of dust and he exits.  His
hands are cuffed.  Behind him is an M.P.  Rambo is greeted
by a sharp-featured American dressed in half-military,
half-civilian.  The chopper cuts its engines.  ERICSON
speaks with an air of worldly confidence...

                         ERICSON
          You can take them off.

Rambo studies Ericson with a raking glance.  The cuffs are
removed...

                         ERICSON
          How ya doing, Rambo, I'm Ericson.
          We better make it over to the
          hanger.

Rambo follows along.

                         ERICSON
                  (continuing)
          So you're the chosen one.  You don't
          remember me do ya?  We were in boot
          camp together in '63.  You went
          Forces, I went Rangers... haven't
          been stateside since '72.  Plenty of
          work here.

They move towards the hanger.  Active military personnel
head in a multitude of directions.  Many are taken aback
by Rambo's strange appearance.

                         ERICSON
                  (continuing)
          You've made a hell of a rep back in
          Nam.  Anyway, I'm glad to be workin'
          with ya, and... this place may not
          be heaven, but at least you're out
          of prison.

                         RAMBO
          ... Am I?


INT.  HANGER - DAY

A section of the hanger turns out to be a HUMMING
electronic womb.  Rambo and Ericson enter.

                         ERICSON
          Pretty soon we'll all be out of a
          job.  Somebody oughta blow it to
          hell and keep fightin' simple.

In the subdued light, banks of video monitors glow, and
the status light of upright computer units line one wall.
Work stations for tracking, communications, and long-range
coordination create a claustrophobic jumble of modular
equipment racks.

Rambo and Ericson walk towards the center of the hanger as
a few TECHNICIANS stare at Rambo's unkempt, almost savage
appearance from several yards away.

                         TECH #1
          What's that?

                         TECH #2
          He's the one going in?

                         TECH #1
          Going in?  He looks like he just
          came out.

Ericson enters first, followed by Rambo.  At the far end
of the dark, voluminous hanger is Trautman.  Next to him
is MARSHALL MURDOCK, a robust thick-set man.  Murdock,
dressed in his white shirt and half-undone tie, looks like
a displaced corporate type.  In the corner is another
mercenary named LIFER.  Lifer is unnerving in his silent
attitude and ever present sunglasses.

Murdock sweats profusely in the Thailand heat.  He speaks
with a relaxed smoothness with whomever he is addressing.
Murdock has a makeshift office set up at the rear of the
hanger.

As they approach Trautman and Murdock:

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (stepping forward)
          There he is -- 'morning, John.

                         RAMBO
          ... Sir.

                         TRAUTMAN
          This is Marshall Murdock, he is in
          charge of special operations from
          Washington.

Rambo nods and shakes his hand.

                         MURDOCK
          Thank you, Colonel; I've been
          looking forward to meeting you.  So
          how was the trip -- no problem?

Rambo shakes his head "no."

                         MURDOCK
                  (continuing)
          None except for this damn heat,
          right?  Never felt anything like it.
          Anyway, let's get down to business
          -- Rambo, I glanced through your
          files and I must say it provided
          interesting reading.
                  (he opens a folder)
          Rambo, John J., born 7/6/47 Bowie,
          Arizona of Indian-Italian-German
          descent.  Joined army 8/6/64.
          Accepted, Special Forces
          specialization, light weapons,
          crossed-trained as medic.
          Helicopter and language qualified --
          59 confirmed kills --

Ericson eyes Rambo, who remains impassive.

                         MURDOCK
                  (continuing, reading)
          ... two Silver Stars, four Bronze,
          four Purple Hearts, Distinguished
          Service Cross, and the Medal of
          Honor... You did get around, didn't
          you... incredible.  Now you're
          probably aware that there are still
          nearly twenty-five hundred Americans
          missing in action in Southeast Asia.
          Most of these boys are presumed
          killed.  But to the League of
          Families -- Congress, and to a lot
          of Americans, it's still a very
          emotional issue.
                  (to Ericson)
          Get me something cold, please.

Ericson opens a Coke machine by turning the key that is in
the front of the machine and reaches inside.

                         MURDOCK
          Rambo, you certainly don't know as
          much about me as I do about you, but
          I was honching with the Second
          Battalion, Third Marines at Kom Tum
          in sixty-six and lost a lot of
          good men, so I know what you and
          every Vet feels.  Maybe the
          government didn't care, maybe
          certain sectors of the public didn't
          care but my committee cares.  It may
          have been a bad war, but the men
          weren't bad.

Rambo nods.

                         TRAUTMAN
          So what his committee needs is
          conclusive proof that Americans are
          being held.

Murdock presents Rambo with a photograph.

                         MURDOCK
                  (overriding)
          And once done, you can be assured
          we'll get our men back...
                  (rapidly)
          If there's any of our men left at
          the P.O.W. targer camp you'll
          confirm their presence by taking
          photographs.

                         RAMBO
          Photographs?

                         MURDOCK
          Just photographs.  Then you turn
          those photos over to me.

                         RAMBO
                  (to Trautman)
          I'm supposed to leave them?

                         MURDOCK
                  (to Ericson)
          Not exactly -- the phrase two Delta
          Force assault team led by Colonel
          Trautman will handle the extraction.

Murdock steps up and is backlit as he confronts Rambo.  He
shakes Rambo's hand.

                         MURDOCK
                  (continuing)
          Anyway, I want to say that with your
          participation I feel this mission
          has a better than average chance of
          succeeding where others have
          failed... I'll meet you both at the
          operations center in one hour.

Murdock and Ericson exit.

Rambo stares at him exiting.  The tension is broken by
Trautman's voice.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Let's move.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman and Rambo pass a tent-like camouflage canopy
under which an all-black Agusta 109 helicopter squats
ominously.  It has no markings and contents of which are
screened from view.  LIFER is attending to the chopper.

                         TRAUTMAN
          From Thailand, across Laos, into the
          mountains of Vietnam to the drop
          zone.  You'll be flying a ceiling of
          250 feet when you bail out, can you
          handle it?

                         RAMBO
          Give it a try --

                         TRAUTMAN
          The code name for the insertion and
          extraction flight team is
          "Dragonfly"; home base "Wolf Den,"
          your code name if "Lone Wolf." Since
          you're going solo, you are going to
          have to rely upon more equipment
          than you've ever used before, and
          use it -- so what I'm sayin' is,
          don't try the "blood and guts"
          routine, let technology do most of
          the work.  If you need assistance,
          call for it.

                         RAMBO
          Let your fingers do the walking.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (smiles)
          ... Affirmative.

They head out of the canopied area and back toward the
hanger.  Rambo glances over his shoulder at an ultra-
modern supersonic jet painted black.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (continuing)
          ... There's your ride.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo and Trautman enter.  Rambo looks around curiously at
all the electronic equipment.

                         TRAUTMAN
          All of this is for you.

Murdock, Ericson and Lifer approach from the rear of Rambo
and Trautman.

                         MURDOCK
          Impressed?

Rambo looks around.

                         MURDOCK
                  (continuing)
          Besides the monitoring devices you
          see here, you'll be issued every
          ultra-modern piece of equipment to
          insure your safety.
                  (gestures at the
                   humming equipment)
          Rambo, you can feel totally safe
          because today we have the most
          advanced weapons in the world
          available to us.

                         RAMBO
          I believe the mind is the best
          weapon.

                         MURDOCK
          ... Times change.

                         RAMBO
          For some people.

                         ERICSON
          ... Amen.

Ericson smiles and continues to walk.  Lifer watches Rambo
with casual indifference, as if trying to size him up.

                         MURDOCK
          This is true -- Don't let me
          interrupt, Colonel --

Rambo gazes around as if in another world.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Upon insertion, call in to base camp
          by Transat -- proceed to Point Hawk
          September for rendezvous with ground
          contact -- indigenous agent Co Bao.

Glances at Rambo who appear oblivious to the Colonel's
instructions.  Murdock speaks to Trautman but does not
think Rambo can overhear him.

                         MURDOCK
          Is he listening?

                         RAMBO
                  (softly)
          ... Indigenous agent Co Bao.

Rambo gives him a cold stare and heads outside.

                         MURDOCK
          Colonel, are you sure he's not still
          unbalanced from the war?  We can't
          afford to have anyone involved who
          might crack under pressure in that
          hell.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Pressure?  Let me just say that
          Rambo's the best combat Vet I've
          ever seen.  A pure fighting machine
          with only a desire, to win a war
          someone else lost, and if winning
          means he has to die, he'll die.  No
          fear.  No regrets... one more
          thing... what you choose to call
          "Hell", he calls home.

Trautman walks away.  Murdock shoots Lifer a meaningful
glance.  Ericson notices this.

TIGHT ON TURBO JET INTAKE - NIGHT

A black maw.  The vanes begin to turn.  The rising WHINE
becomes a STEADY ROAR.


INT.  RAMBO'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

In the darkened room, Rambo's presence is highlighted by
shadows as he intently sharpens his knife.  EXTREME
CLOSEUP on Rambo's eyes then the blade as it drags across
the grinding stone.

ON PEREGRINE - WIDER

as the blue FIRE ROARS in the exhaust throat.


INT.  RAMBO'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

EXTREME CLOSEUP of what appears to be boots being tied on.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - NIGHT

Under the beams of floodlights a ground crew smoothly but
quickly removes a fueling hose.


INT.  RAMBO'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

Rambo is looking down the telescope and sight of an
assault rifle.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - NIGHT

The pilots, one being Ericson, go through an equipment
check in the cockpit...

CLOSEUP OF CONTROL PANEL, LIFER


INT.  RAMBO'S QUARTERS - TIGHT ON RAMBO'S HANDS - NIGHT

as he pushes .45 hollow point slugs into a clip and jams
the .45 which the CAMERA FOLLOWS PAST his face and INTO
his holster...


INT.  HANGER TENT - NIGHT

Everyone sits at their respective stations -- tension
penetrates the room.  Murdock is flanked by a pair of army
communications TECHNICIANS.

                         LOUDSPEAKER
          D-minus 10 minutes.

Murdock remains expressionless.


INT.  RAMBO'S QUARTERS - TIGHT ON KNIFE - NIGHT

A CLOSEUP of the knife being picked up and placed in the
sheath.


INT.  JET COCKPIT - NIGHT

Ericson is making some final equipment checks on the
dashboard.

                         ERICSON
          The Prince of Darkness.

                         LIFER
          What?

                         ERICSON
          That was his nickname in Nam --
          'Prince of Darkness'.  At night he'd
          go out alone and hunt Cong, then
          come back at dawn... no questions
          asked.  Man has style.


EXT.  AIRFIELD - NIGHT

DOLLYING before Rambo and Trautman.  Blue and red taxi
lights send strobe flashes of color across their faces as
they approach the aircraft.  He is burdened by what seems
to be a mountain of high-tech military communications
equipment.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Thirty-six hours to get the hell in
          and out, so don't stop to smell the
          roses, okay?  If there is any
          trouble, try like hell to get to the
          Hawk September extraction sight
          marked on your map.

Rambo nods "yes".

                         ERICSON
                  (yells above the
                   roar)
          Ready to roll, Colonel.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Good luck, son.

                         RAMBO
                  (low, but hard)
          Remember when Murdock said he was
          with Second Battalion, Third Marines
          at Kom Tum in '66...

Trautman nods.

                         RAMBO
                  (continuing)
          The Second Battalion was at Kud
          Sank.

Trautman lets that sink in then pats Rambo's shoulder.  A
relaxed Lifer helps Rambo aboard.

                         LIFER
          All set?

                         RAMBO
          Yeah.

                         LIFER
          Let's go.

Ericson gives Rambo a "thumbs up" gesture... Rambo returns
the gesture.


EXT.  AIRFIELD - NIGHT

The aircraft hurtles down the runway, gathering speed.
The nose picks up.  It clears the end of the runway and
then the treeline by a few feet.


EXT.  AIRFIELD - NIGHT

Trautman watches the jet start its takeoff and slowly
ascend into the night.

Murdock steps INTO FRAME next to him.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Think he'll find someone?

                         MURDOCK
          P.O.W.'s... doubtful... but there's
          people to satisfy.  Questions that
          have to be answered.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You don't sound too emotional about
          it.

                         MURDOCK
          It wasn't my war, Colonel.  I'm just
          here to clean up the mess.

Murdock looks up at the sky and reports as Trautman
continues to watch the plane disappear into the night.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - NIGHT

A sleek silhouette above the moonlit forest, the jet
flashes across the rolling terrain just above the
treetops.


INT.  COCKPIT - NIGHT

Ericson uses HUD (Heads Up Display) that reflects the
instruments off the front windshield.  This device permits
a pilot to fly without ever having to look down at his
instruments.


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT

Rambo checks his equipment, preparing for the jump.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Murdock and Trautman are hunched at the main console.

                         TECHNICIAN
          AWACS two-five has acquired.  They
          are holding time line... Affirmative
          Wolf Den... Over.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Trautman watches the glowing dot representing the jet
crawling almost imperceptibly across a computer generated
grid map of Central Laos.  It is reflected in his eyes.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - MOVING WITH IT - DAWN

as it slices through a twisting canyon like a knife.  As
it slithers between mountainous flanks -- still moving
incredibly close to the earth's contour.


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT - DAWN

Rambo methodically checks his burdensome pack and harness,
seemingly oblivious to the insanity outside.

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
                  (filtered)
          Back in the Badlands, my man.

Even the impassive Rambo is affected as he realizes he is
back "in country." Lifer holds on to the side of the
plane's interior as he moves to his position at the exit
door.

                         LIFER
          ... Party time.

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
          Stand by your position -- insertion,
          minus fifteen seconds.

Rambo unbuckles and half-crawls to the open door.


EXT.  PEREGRINE (GROUND TO AIR) - DAWN


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT

The ready light changes from red to yellow.  Rambo hooks
up his static line.

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
          Five seconds, four, three, two.
          Jumper away.

Read light turns to green.

Rambo is gone.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - DAWN

Rambo's static line suddenly gets hung up.  His equipment
is tangled and Rambo is being dragged through the sky.


INT.  COCKPIT - DAWN

An ALARM SOUND and Ericson nearly jumps up.

                         ERICSON
                  (into mike to Lifer)
          Shit!  What's happening?


INT.  HANGER - DAWN

All present hear the transmission from Ericson.


EXT.  PEREGRINE - DAWN

Rambo's helmet is torn off by the incredible wind
velocity.  Rambo can no longer breath.


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT - DAWN

Lifer tries to free Rambo's entanglement from the inside
but cannot.

                         LIFER
          He's hung up!

                         ERICSON
          He'll be torn apart!!


INT.  HANGER - DAWN

Murdock has the headset on.

                         TRAUTMAN
          What's happening?!


INT.  JET

                         ERICSON
                  (filled with panic)
          Condition Red!  He's hung up!?


INT.  HANGER

                         MURDOCK
          What do you mean "hung up"?!

                         ERICSON
          He's being dragged!  Lifer cut him
          loose.

                         LIFER
          Can't reach him! -- pull out before we
          get killed!!


EXT.  PEREGRINE - DAWN

Rambo manages to grasp his knife and with his other hand
pulls a strap away from his body and cuts it... a pack of
equipment blows away... Along with it, his rifle...


INT.  COCKPIT - DAWN

POV of mountains approaching.


INT.  COCKPIT - DAWN

Ericson eyes the radar screen.

                         MURDOCK (V.O.)
          Ericson, abort mission!  Pull out!

                         ERICSON
          It'll kill him to change course!


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT - DAWN

Lifer looks out, seeing the mountains.

                         LIFER
          Pull out you bastard!  Climb!


EXT.  PEREGRINE - POV - DAWN

The mountain range is dead ahead on a collision course.


EXT.  JET - RAMBO - DAWN

Rambo cuts the second strap and more equipment disappears.

Rambo strains to wedge his body forward and in a final
effort breaks free of the jet.


EXT.  JET - RAMBO

Rambo falling away from the plane.


INT.  PASSENGER COMPARTMENT - DAWN

Lifer is being ravaged by the DEAFENING ROAR and the wind
force, and shields his eyes as he watches Rambo break
free.

                         LIFER
          He's out!


EXT.  PEREGRINE - DAWN

The jet veers skyward.


INT.  COCKPIT - DAWN

                         ERICSON
                  (to himself)
          ... Out where?


EXT.  SKY

Rambo falls.  His chute explodes open.


EXT.  SKY - DAWN

CLOSEUP of Rambo as chute opens.

RAMBO'S POV

of ground approaching.

RAMBO

approaching the treetops and disappearing through them.

RAMBO

hits the ground and rolls down slope.

RAMBO

stops rolling by hitting a massive tree trunk.


EXT.  JUNGLE - DAWN

Foreboding darkness is everywhere.  Furtive.  Timeless.
Rambo is lying on his side, badly shaken.  He looks around
to get some sense of bearing and then begins to gather in
his chute.


INT.  PEREGRINE - DAWN

Ericson and Lifer in cockpit.

                         ERICSON
          What's happened back there?

                         LIFER
          ... Malfunction.

Ericson eyes him.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

The chief TELECOM TECH turns to Murdock.

                         TECHNICIAN
          Nothing's coming in from Rambo.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Dragonfly, this is Wolf Den, over.
          Dragonfly, do you read?

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
          This is Dragonfly One, over.


INT.  PEREGRINE - DAY

Ericson and Lifer head homeward.

                         TRAUTMAN (V.O.)
          Any visual bearings?

                         ERICSON
          ... Negative.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman looks at Murdock.

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
          We didn't see anything.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - CLEARING - DAY

Rambo squats, studying his waterproof map.  He checks his
compass in the knife's handle.  After a quick look around,
he gets to his feet, and slips into the jungle.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

Rambo moving through the jungle.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman stands with Murdock.

                         MURDOCK
          Maybe the smart thing to do is abort
          the mission now before there's any
          more complications.  I mean who
          could've survived something like
          that?

                         TRAUTMAN
          He's got to be given the benefit of
          the doubt.  He has 36 hours to carry
          out the mission and reach the
          extraction site, we owe him that.

                         MURDOCK
          ... Of course we do -- but
          understand in 36 hours we pull out.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY - LATER

Rambo heads quickly up a steep trail over the ridgeline
above.

FOLLOWING RAMBO - HAND-HELD - DAY

as he moves along a narrow game trail.  Shapes loom out of
the mist, revealed as harmless trunks of vines only at the
last second.


EXT.  JUNGLE - DAY

Rambo is half running along, then pauses... He hears
MOVEMENT and freezes.  In one deadly movement he whips the
knife around and a SLICING SOUND is heard... Turning
around he sees the suspended body of a decapitated
writhing snake hanging from a branch... He replaces his
knife and moves on.


EXT.  HILLSIDE - DAY

Running to the top of the rise, the trail opens out onto a
plateau-like cleared area.

Rambo pauses to catch his breath.

Ahead, wreathed in vines, looms from the mist, the ruins
of a Wat.

WIDER

as Rambo walks into the atrium of a ruined "Wat," or
Buddhist temple.


EXT.  RUINS OF WAT - DAY

Serene despite the ravages of centuries, two stone Buddhas
sit flanking the stairs to the ruined temple.  Trees and
vines all but obscure the cracked and tumbled forms of
ornately carved walls.

The central courtyard is open to the sky.  Spire-like
structures are dimly visible in the fog beyond.

Moving in the shadows, Rambo walks through the ruins
noiselessly.  Rambo senses movement and lunging to the
side draws his pistol and goes into a combat ready stance.
The figure in the undergrowth takes shifts position.
Rambo takes up a new position.  What appears to be a Viet
soldier shifts position again; likewise Rambo.


EXT.  WAT - DAY

Rambo moves with surprising grace through the
undergrowth... His quarry also moves with amazing
swiftness... This chess game goes on for several more
moves.


EXT.  WAT - CLOSEUP - STRANGER - DAY

We are not able to distinguish any recognizable features.
One thing for certain; this person is carrying an AK-47
rifle...

The stranger turns and brings the rifle into view.

Rambo's knife slashes into view... He jerks the soldier's
head back, preparing to cut his throat... The stranger's
hat falls off and long hair tumbles out.

                         CO
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Don't kill me!

Rambo freezes and beholds a diminutive Vietnamese WOMAN of
about 28.  She is absolutely beautiful, wide wide,
expressive eyes and a strong but sensuous mouth which is
now parted in frozen fear.

                         CO
                  (continuing, Viet
                   subtitled)
          Let me go, please!

                         RAMBO
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Who are you?

                         CO
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Co Bao -- Are you the one they send?
          Rambo?

Rambo nods.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          I was hiding -- you did not come on
          time.  I thought you one of
          mercenaries still here.  You did not
          expect a woman, no?
                  (in broken English)
          Better speak English, yes?

Rambo nods... Co rises and stands before Rambo, almost a
head shorter than him.  Her lithe figure is not entirely
concealed by her loose black "pajamas."

                         RAMBO
          We better get moving.

                         CO
          Yes, we go to river...
                  (they start off)
          Why you so late?

                         RAMBO
                  (dryly)
          ... Got hung up.


EXT.  RIVER TRAIL - DAY

With Co leading the way through a maze of aimless game
trails, she and Rambo make their way parallel to a modest
river, the Ca.

                         CO
          I have arranged transportation down
          river -- old routes not safe.

Rambo studies her face.

Then they move off.


EXT.  RIVER - MARSHY INLET - DAY

Crudely fashioned hut of corrugated sheet metal and bamboo
walls among the naked tree roots in a brackish inlet off
the main river.  Out on the edge overhanging the river are
two men, drunk and loudly speaking.  Possibly two of the
most misbegotten specimens ever seen.  Modern day pirates.

They suspiciously eye Co and Rambo as they approach from
along the riverbank.  Exchange a few quick syllables, and
Co turns, motioning Rambo forward into the hut.

                         CO
          Salt of the earth, yes?

                         RAMBO
          Pirates?

                         CO
          Best way down river -- not get army
          suspicious.


INT.  PIRATE HUT - DAY

The sunlight filters into the dusty, dark hut, which is
nothing more than a den of eight incredibly vicious-
looking thieves... most of them drink and smoke... two
worn-out river whores are present.

Every conceivable space is crammed with scavenged or
looted detritus: ammo cases, hubcaps, radios, a TV with no
back, several guns, and a shotgun is seen among the junk.
Some of the pirates are smoking opium.

Wearing all manner of jewelry, including four wristwatches
and a pair of filthy Western-style jeans a size too large,
CAPTAIN TRONG KINH grins and motions them in.

The grin reveals bare gums where his upper front teeth
would be.

                         KINH
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Wa-ky number one.  You come number
          one sampan.

                         CO
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Thank you, Captain, for your
          hospitality.

                         KINH
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          This is the man who wants to go down
          river.
                  (laughs)
          You speak Viet?

Rambo pretends like he is ignorant.

                         CO
          He does not understand.

                         KINH
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          You have money?

                         CO
          Half now... half later.

Co hands over a wad of American money... Kinh smiles but
is not happy about the financial arrangements and barks
some commands to the lounging pirates.

                         KINH
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          We leave now.  It's safer --
                  (he offers Co a drink
                   from  the bottle)
          ... Want a drink?  Good for you.

He smiles, and starts out the door.


EXT.  SAMPAN CABIN - DAY

Rambo, Co and two of Kinh's cronies sit in the dim
interior.

                         KINH
          You stay here -- you want a drink?

He offers the bottle again... Co shakes her head no.

                         RAMBO
          What about patrol boats?

Co looks at Kinh who smiles and opens a greasy wooden
locker and takes out Russian-made R.P.G. rocket
launchers...


INT.  SAMPAN - KINH - DAY

Kinh returns the weapon to the locker and smiles at Co.

                         KINH
          We will have no problems.

He laughs and exits.


INT.  SAMPAN - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo faces Co.

                         CO
          You want to rest?

They speak English which has the pirates staring
curiously.  Rambo shakes his head "no."

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          That settles that -- we eat, yes?

Co pulls a food tube off her shoulder, she unrolls the
rubber tree leaves and exposes some rice.  Rambo takes the
rice on the side of his knife.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          You're welcome.

                         RAMBO
                  (reddens)
          ... Want it back?

                         CO
          No, you eat -- How you get into
          this?

                         RAMBO
          Long story.

                         CO
          Long ride.

Rambo shakes his head "no."

                         RAMBO
          How about you?

                         CO
          My father work for intelligence
          agency -- He killed, and I take his
          place -- Too much death here.  Death
          everywhere... I just want to live,
          Rambo.  What you want?

Rambo shrugs.

                         RAMBO
          ... To win, to survive.

                         CO
          ... To survive.

Rambo nods.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          Not so easy to survive here -- Still
          war here.

                         RAMBO
          ... To survive war, you have to
          become war.

                         CO
          That why they pick you because you
          like to fight?

Rambo shakes his head "no."

                         RAMBO
          ... I'm expendable.

                         CO
          Ex-pend-a-ble?

                         RAMBO
          Know what it means?

                         CO
          Don't tell me... It mean if you
          invited to party and you do not show
          up, it does not matter?  Yes?

Rambo studies her face and slowly nods.  Rambo looks at
the medallion around her neck.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          It bring me good luck -- What bring
          you good luck?

Rambo slowly reaches down and wraps his fingers around the
butt of his knife then glances over at the lounging
pirates... Co gathers his meaning.


EXT.  CA RIVER - DUSK

The water is coppery, silhouetting the sampan as it glides
down the river.


INT.  HANGER - MURDOCK'S OFFICE SECTION - DAY

Murdock sits behind his desk.  Lifer sits in the corner
nearby drinking a soda... Trautman enters... Murdock looks
up.  Ericson is present.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Any further reports?

                         MURDOCK
          None so far.

                         TRAUTMAN
          I want to go out with the extraction
          team at dawn.

                         MURDOCK
          Denied.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Denied?

                         MURDOCK
          It's too dangerous.

                         ERICSON
          He deserves a chance.

Lifer eyes Ericson and exhales out his cigarette smoke.

                         MURDOCK
          Colonel, we're a team here.  It's
          everyone's worry -- I just think all
          things considered it's an
          unnecessary risk.

                         TRAUTMAN
          We have a schedule to keep.

                         MURDOCK
          With who?  We don't even know if
          Rambo's alive.

                         LIFER
          The odds are against it.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Look, you said we go through as
          planned.

                         MURDOCK
          But, if you want to go through with
          it, we will!
                  (to Ericson)
          The Colonel will be joining the
          extraction team... You're a good
          man, Trautman.

Trautman gives him a curious look and exits.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVER - DUSK

The Sampan glides toward the shore.  The pirates prepare
for landing.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVERSHORE - DUSK

Rambo and Co appear on deck, ready to disembark.  They
jump off the boat, landing in water about knee deep and
head toward the jungle.

                         CO
                  (to Kinh)
          You wait here... We come back, then
          pay rest...


EXT.  FOREST - DUSK

Rambo and Co move through the forest... DISSOLVE to a
different elevation and ANGLE as they continue to travel.


EXT.  SWAMP - NIGHT


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

As they reach a clearing rise, CAMERA BOOMS UP over the
shoulder of the embankment to reveal an extraordinary
compound beyond... dark, except for the moonlight.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO'S POV - NIGHT

Rambo and Co watch from concealment in the foliage.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO'S POV - NIGHT

Looking between leaves, scanning the prison camp.

Two guard towers are uniquely built into trees that grow
diagonally at opposite corners of the compound.  There is
a maze of rolled barbed wire on wooden posts enclosing the
area and a main gate with a sentry box, that is built into
the hollow of a tree.

Three wooden barracks form a U, around the large but
concealed opening in the side of a rock formation.  All
this can be near a riverbank or swamp.  The camp is
totally original in its oppressive design, and contrary to
the way most prison camps are depicted in bright open
areas.  This one is dark and recessed into the hellish
terrain.

                         CO (O.S.)
          ... Looks empty.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

                         CO
          We should move closer.

She starts to move and almost steps on a booby trap but
Rambo places a hand on her shoulder to stop her.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

A young woman on a Lambretta scooter pulls up to the entry
shack.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

They listen to the conversation (in Vietnamese).  Co says:

                         CO
          Cyclo-girl whore from village.
          Business slow there.
                  (listens more)
          She makes him good deal... very good
          deal.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The guard opens the gate and the girl goes inside.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

Now Rambo picks up his cylindrical pouch and opens it.  He
pulls out a collapsible bow.

                         CO
          What is it?

                         RAMBO
          A bow -- no sound.

                         CO
          That all you have?

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - GUARD TOWER - NIGHT

The tower guard now converses with another guard passing
beneath the tower.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - EXTREME CLOSEUP - RAMBO - NIGHT

Rambo has completed assembling the bow.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

Rambo screws on a vicious-looking razor-sharp arrow-head.

                         CO
          You not going in there? -- But I
          thought you were supposed only to
          take pictures.

Rambo rises.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          What about orders?

                         RAMBO
          Out here orders stop and people
          start.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO - NIGHT

DOLLYING with Rambo at ground level as he crawls to the
wire.  And leveraging his knife against the edge of the
post and rusting barbed wire, slices through the metal.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - CO - NIGHT

MOVING with Co as she belly crawls to the edge of the
cleared area, just a few yards from the wire.  She is
right under the guard tower, hidden among the ferns.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - GUARD TOWER - NIGHT

The guard sits in a bored fashion and stares at nothing in
particular.


EXT.  P.O.W. BARRACKS - NIGHT

Rambo crawls to door of P.O.W. barracks, looks, opens door
and looks into empty room.

RAMBO'S POV OF EMPTY P.O.W. BARRACKS

all grown with vegetation.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - NIGHT

He reaches the guard building.  Hugs it.  Carrying only
the bow and a quiver of arrows he moves like a snake.
Rambo raises one eye slowly over a window ledge.  Inside
several guards sleep soundly under mosquito netting.
Their rifles are stacked against the far wall.


EXT.  UNDER GUARD BARRACKS #2 - NIGHT

MUSIC is heard.  MOVING with Rambo as he moves along the
shadows.

He freezes as a light is snapped on.  It streams down
through cracks between the slats.  Moving very slowly,
Rambo squints through a gap.


EXT.  UNDER GUARD BARRACKS #2 - RAMBO'S POV - SGT. TAY -
NIGHT

TAY picks up a warm bottle of beer and opens it.  The foam
now runs onto the floor.  The cyclo girl sits in the b.g.
He pushes her toward a cot and barks something in
Vietnamese.

The light snaps off.  Rambo moves on.


EXT.  REAR VINH'S QUARTERS - NIGHT

as Rambo crawls under a hammock stretched between the
barrack and rock with someone sleeping in the hammock.


EXT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - NIGHT

Rambo moves to the cave-like entrance and moves several
feet into the recess of the cave.


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - NIGHT

Once inside he removes a thin flashlight and directs its
thin red beam toward the SOUND OF LABORED BREATHING.  He
sees a large bamboo cell built into the moldy wet cave.
He moves closer and sees --


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - NIGHT

Five American P.O.W.'s are seen through the bars.  They
are gaunt, scabrous.  Dressed in ragged peasant clothes
too small for them.

One man, bathed in sweat, moans and tosses with malarial
fever.  Another is wrapped so tightly in a fetal position
his face is between his knees.

They sleep on mattresses of rubber leaves... Rats move
among them.


INT.  PRISONER CAVE - NIGHT

Rambo hears GROANING SOUNDS coming from the darkness
outside the cave, he moves toward it.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - CROSS - NIGHT

Outside of the cave and nestled near a pigsty, is a
PRISONER suspended from a bamboo cross.  He is ghostly
white; a living skeleton... His wrists are clamped in a
wooden stock.  Blood runs down from abraded sores.  He
opens his eyes when Rambo touches his broomstick neck,
feeling for a pulse.

His lips are parched and there is a horrible bruise around
one eye.  Rambo moves to him.

                         RAMBO
          Come to get you out --

The Prisoner manages to raise his hand, opens his eyes a
little more.

                         PRISONER
          ... You American?

Rambo quickly cuts the lashings on the bamboo cross.

                         RAMBO
          Don't talk -- don't move.

Rambo hoists his gaunt frame over his shoulder and heads
off in a crouching run.

                         BANKS
          There are others --

                         RAMBO
          ... We'll come back.


EXT.  BRIDGE - LOW ANGLE GUARD #1

We pan up to him reacting to a noise.  He turns on his
search light and pans it slowly across the camp.


EXT.  BRIDGE - HIGH ANGLE OVER SHOULDER GUARD #1 - NIGHT

The search light pans the camp and stops as...


EXT.  CLOSE TWO-SHOT RAMBO & BANKS NEAR RIVER - NIGHT

The beam of light fully illuminates them.

C.U. GUARD #1

Reacts to a laser dot that pin points his chest.

C.U. RAMBO

As he fires arrow.

CLOSE GUARD #1

The arrow hits him and he falls from the bridge.  The
light points straight down illuminating his body.


EXT.  RIVER P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo and Banks wade into the river.


EXT.  HUT NEAR RIVER - NIGHT

Guard #2 comes from a small hut toward the river.


EXT.  RIVER - RAMBO & BANKS - NIGHT

Rambo reacts and throws his knife.


EXT.  RIVER - GUARD #2 - NIGHT

Dies quickly, silently.

CLOSE GUARD #3

He senses movement and swings his light around (he has not
turned it on yet.)


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - RAMBO - NIGHT

He's moving fairly quick with the P.O.W.  The sickly man
starts to emit a wracking cough.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - GUARD TREE TOWER - NIGHT

The numbed guard is alerted and in a listless manner turns
on his light and flashes it in Rambo's direction.  As the
light slowly swings around, it fully illuminates Rambo.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - RAMBO - NIGHT

A shocking vision of Rambo, bow fully extended aimed
directly at the guard's heart... RACK FOCUS FROM the
jagged arrow point TO Rambo's eyes.  The arrow is fired.


EXT.  GUARD TREE TOWER - NIGHT

The guard slumps forward with an arrow through his chest.
He falls on the light that now shines skyward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Co watches with growing apprehension as she sees the
guard's light angled oddly downward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - PATROL GUARD - NIGHT

The patrol guard spies the oddly angled light and yells
something to the guard.  He flips on his light and aims it
at Tower #1 and sees that his comrade is dead.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo is hiding against Tay's Barrack with Banks when all
of a sudden the light comes on in the Barrack the spill
illuminates him.  Rambo ducks.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Patrol guard reacts to Rambo's movements and notices Rambo
against the barrack.  He's about to yell as Rambo kills
him with his throwing knife.  Rambo lunges on the
staggering guard and pulls him from view.


EXT.  TAY'S QUARTERS - OVER RAMBO - NIGHT

Sgt. Tay comes out of his shack and looks.  The whore
pulls him back.  American MUSIC coming from a scratched
RECORD continues.  Rambo moves into the shadows.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Rambo carrying Banks, walks by a latrine, the door
suddenly swings open almost hitting then in the face as a
prison guard exits and walks directly toward his barrack,
and disappears inside.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Co seems to have lost sight of Rambo.  She scans the camp
to the treeline and back.

WHAM!  A booted foot smashes down on her arm.  She looks
up at...

A North Vietnamese guard who holds an AK-47 in her face.

Co stares nervously at him.  There is a HISSING SOUND,
then a DULL RIPPING SOUND.

Co looks up to see...

The guard is paralyzed by the arrow lodged in his neck and
pins him to a tree.

Rambo and Banks appear from the undergrowth, bow in
Rambo's hand.

                         RAMBO
          Let's move.

Rambo takes the guard's side arm and places it in his
waistband.


EXT.  SWAMP - DAWN

Rambo and Co carrying Banks.  Rambo sets him down.

                         RAMBO
          Can you walk?

                         BANKS
          I think so --

Banks stops and looks at his two rescuers, his eyes
darting back and forth in their hollow sockets.

                         BANKS
                  (continuing)
          Who are you?

                         CO
          He is Rambo.  I am Co.

                         BANKS
          Banks -- Lieutenant -- Air Force.

                         CO
          ... We must get to the river...
          Fast!

Banks sits frozen for a moment.

                         BANKS
                  (on the verge of
                   tears)
          ... Thank you... you're a miracle.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAWN

A stocky Sergeant of the Guard stands over the partially
concealed body of the guard Rambo killed.

He raises his whistle and sends a SHRILL BLAST across the
camp.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - CROSS - DAWN

A guard discovers Banks missing and yells to the rest of
the guards.


EXT.  SWAMP - DAWN

Rambo carrying Banks through the swamp with Co close
behind them.


EXT.  HANGER - DAWN

Lifer, and the ground crew are removing the camouflage
canopy from the Agusta 109 helicopter.  The TURBINES are
warming up with an ascending WHINE.

Ericson and Trautman, f.g., turn as TECH runs toward them.

                         TECH
          You have clearance.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Minus one hour to extraction.

                         ERICSON
                  (scowling at his
                   watch)
          We're probably just wasting fuel.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Let's get moving!


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

A squad of Viet soldiers are moving rapidly through the
forest, looking for signs of the escaping prisoner.  Sgt.
Tay is supervising the search.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVER BANK - DAY

Rambo carrying Banks and Co arrive at the sampan pretty
much as they left it.  The pirates keep watch.


EXT.  SAMPAN RIVER BANK - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo and Co start to help Banks aboard the junk.  Then Co
climbs aboard.  Rambo is still in the water.

                         CO
          L.Z. two K's up river.

                         BANKS
          Good thing you came when you did.

                         CO
          Why's that.

                         BANKS
          They move us around a lot... to
          harvest crops.  Only been there a
          week.

                         RAMBO
                  (confused)
          Only a week?

Rambo is alerted by this information.

                         BANKS
                  (nods and catches
                   his breath)
          ... Yes.

                         CO
          When last time you in camp here?

                         BANKS
          Maybe a year... Hey, what year is
          it?

                         CO
          ... 1984... Camp supposed to be
          empty?

Banks is shaken.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          Something not good about mission,
          uh, Rambo?

Rambo is starting to put two and two together as he climbs
aboard.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

At treetop level the all-black helicopter ROARS down a
forested valley at 180 mph.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - DAY

The Viet soldiers arrive at the shore and see the sampan
in a distance too far to shoot at.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - TAY - DAY

As Tay is talking on the radio, obviously notifying
Superiors that the prisoner is escaping via the sampan.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo watches through a chink in the sheeting of the cabin
as the hostile landscape rolls past...

Rambo is alerted by the faint but growing SOUND OF A BOAT
ENGINE.

Rambo moves closer to the slats in the side of the sampan
and peers out... Straining his eyes because of the
difficult angle he becomes startled when a heavily
equipped gunboat appears from around a bend in the
river... the boat was once property of the U.S. Navy.

Before Rambo can turn the two pirates have weapons in his
back, and neck.  One pirate jerks Rambo's .45 free and
stashes it in his waistband.

Co is alert and tries to get to her feet.  One of the
pirates kicks her down and takes her AK-47.  Banks is held
down at gun point.

                         CO
          What has happened?

                         RAMBO
          We're sold out.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh waves a black piece of cloth from a stick and the
boat draws closer.

Kinh yells at another pirate to take the helm as he goes
inside.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh appears and his friendly smile is gone.  Rambo still
remains frozen with an old high standard auto shotgun
lodged against the back of his head.

                         KINH
          Whore!

Kinh slaps Co viciously... CLOSEUP of Rambo slowly moving
his hand imperceptibly toward his back.

                         KINH
                  (continuing)
          You help this -- American pig!

He slaps Rambo, who uses the moment to catch one pirate
off guard and kills him with his knife.  Then throws the
knife into Pirate #2's heart.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo picks up the auto shotgun and FIRES.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Kinh seeing this panics and heads out of the cabin.  Then
suddenly explodes from the threshold and sprawls like a
rag doll across the deck.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - RIVER - DAY

The military men become alert and hasten toward the
sampan... The Captain yells an order to prepare to shoot.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DECK - DAY

Rambo appears on deck with a vengeance... He blows three
more pirates away with deadly SHOTGUN BLASTS.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Co sees the outline of another pirate rushing toward Rambo
and FIRING through the bamboo, blows him clear off the
boat.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

On the gunboat the Captain commands his gunner to fire.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

The SHELL HITS the bow, ten feet from Rambo, destroying
the front of the boat...

                         RAMBO
                  (to Co)
          Get to the shore!


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

ANOTHER EXPLOSION on deck that nearly finds the mark...
The boat is sinking fast.


INT.  SAMPAN - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo enters the cabin... He flips open the locker and
pulls out the R.P.G. rocket launcher.


INT.  SAMPAN - CO - DAY

Co is FIRING wildly at the patrol boat that is bearing
down with surprising speed.

                         RAMBO
                  (furiously)
          Take him and jump!

Rambo shoulders the R.P.G. and takes aim.


INT.  SAMPAN - CO AND BANKS - DAY

Co slings her rifle across her shoulder and taking charge
of Banks heads out of the cabin.


EXT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Co jumps into the brown water with Banks.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

The Captain is about to yell "Fire."


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Rambo's finger tightens around the trigger and the WEAPON
BELCHES an awesome flame.


EXT.  GUNBOAT - DAY

The shot is perfect and the superstructure on the deck
EXPLODES into the sky, killing everyone... but the patrol
boat is out of control and is about to ram the sampan.


INT.  SAMPAN - DAY

Seeing this inferno bearing down on them, Rambo sprints at
full run, grabs his knife out of the dead pirate, picks up
his black bow pouch and lunges out of the cabin like a
jungle cat.


EXT.  SAMPAN - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo appears on deck and dives into the river as the
patrol boat is barely inches away.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

The gunboat and the sampan collide with a MIGHTY ROAR, as
Rambo just breaks the water's surface.


EXT.  RIVER BANK - VIET SOLDIERS - DAY

A group of North Vietnamese soldiers at the river bank
hear the explosion of the boats and head off in that
direction.


EXT RIVER - RAMBO - DAY

He surfaces and glances back at the burning debris then
for the whereabouts of Co and Banks.  He spies them on the
shoreline.


EXT.  RIVERBANK - DAY

Co and Banks still out of breath, move out of anxiety than
exhaustion.  Rambo joins them.  Banks studies Rambo with
awe.

                         CO
          ... Knew you were a good man.

Rambo shoulders Banks.

                         RAMBO
          ... Let's move.

They start off.


EXT.  MOVING WITH THE A109 - DAY

as it rises and drops with the terrain.


INT.  A109 - DAY

Once again Ericson is flying.  He puts the landing skids
through the treetops.

Trautman sits behind the seats in the main bay.

The AIR ROARS in the open door and Lifer, on door gun,
dangles his legs in the windstream.  The rain forest is a
dim blur very close below.

Lifer racks the bolt on his M-60 and grins.  Trautman nods
politely and looks at his watch.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NEAR RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo's group heads for the elevated landing zone.

The vista is quite stunning as the cold light suffuses the
rain forest, giving it a haunting quality.  Rambo scans
the ridge line with intense concentration.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - RAMBO'S POV - DAY

Figures of twenty or more Vietnamese soldiers can be seen
threading upward among the trees.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo hands his quiver and bow to Co.

                         RAMBO
          ... I won't be needin' it now...
          Trade you.

She hands over the rifle.

                         RAMBO
                  (continuing)
          There's explosives in the pouch.

                         CO
          ... It better I stay till end.

                         RAMBO
          This is the end.

                         CO
          ... I want to stay... Now we have
          chance, why don't you take me back?

                         RAMBO
          Where?

                         CO
          America... You can do if you want --
          take me back as wife... You don't
          have to live with.  Just help me get
          away from this.

                         RAMBO
          I came for P.O.W.'s -- How would it
          look if I came back with a wife?

                         CO
          Look like you hell of a man.

Rambo shakes his head "no."

                         CO
                  (continuing, softly)
          What the matter?  Not allow to feel
          -- maybe dead inside already.  Don't
          we die soon enough.  Just thought
          I'd ask.

A long look exchanged between Rambo and Co, then Co kisses
his cheek and turns to head off along a diverging trail.
She turns.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          Rambo... you not expendable.

Rambo watches her go and then turns to Banks.

                         RAMBO
          ... Let's go.


INT.  A109 - DAY

Trautman watches over Ericson's shoulder as the HELICOPTER
ROARS between the walls of the mountain pass.  The ship is
buffeted by turbulence, bouncing and dropping violently.

                         ERICSON
                  (turning)
          Three minutes.

The steep slopes fall away and Ericson dives the ship
across the rolling foothills.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo is crouched with Banks beside a large tree.

They are taking AUTOMATIC WEAPONS FIRE from the trees
nearby.  Spurts of earth leap up around them.

Rambo fires a short, controlled BURST down at the
ascending troops.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Sgt. Tay is eyeing Rambo and Banks through binoculars as
they move further up the hill.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - TAY'S POV

of Rambo and Banks.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

NVA regulars set up mortars.  Roughly aimed.  They FIRE
with a characteristic WHUMP.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

The Americans duck as a MORTAR ROUND EXPLODES behind them,
tearing down trees.


EXT.  A109 - DAY

In the distance Rambo and Banks are seen.  They are
surrounded.  They move out of the tree line into a
sparsely vegetated area that runs along the very ridge of
the towering hill.  The chopper opens fire with its
machine guns and the NVA soldiers back off.


INT.  A109 - ON TRAUTMAN - DAY

as he reacts to below.  Ericson is firing the machine gun.

                         TRAUTMAN
          That's Rambo! -- Christ, he's found
          one.  Relay the command.  Rambo's
          found one of ours!


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Murdock is pacing behind the main console.

                         TELECOM TECH
          Mr. Murdock... I have an AWACS
          relay.  Dragonfly reports the ground
          team has what appears to be an
          American P.O.W. with them.

Murdock's reaction is unexpected.  He whips around.

                         MURDOCK
          What did you say?

                         TELECOM TECH
                  (grinning)
          They've got one of ours.


INT.  HANGER - TIGHT ON MURDOCK - DAY

as a look of calm is replaced by mounting rage.

                         MURDOCK
                  (loudly)
          This station is now on Condition
          Bravo.  Harrison!  Meyers!  Goodell!
          Out... now!

The puzzled Techs drop their headsets and leave.

                         MURDOCK
                  (continuing, to Tech)
          Go to your COMINT priority push.
          Give me the mike... Dragonfly, this
          is Wolf Den Six.  This is an Alpha-
          Kilo-Victor command priority.

                         ERICSON (V.O.)
                  (filtered)
          Roger, Wolf Den Six... go ahead.

                         MURDOCK
          I want you to abort the operation
          immediately.  I say again, abort.
          This is a recall, confirm, over.


INT.  A109 - DAY

The men have impassive expressions.

                         ERICSON
          Say again, Wolf Den Six.

He presses the helmet-headphone tight to his ear, then
turns to Trautman, cupping his hand over the mike.

                         ERICSON
                  (continuing, to
                   Trautman)
          I've been ordered to abort before
          pickup.

                         TRAUTMAN
          He must be crazy!  Confirm it!

                         ERICSON
          Confirmation's not necessary.

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (grabs a microphone)
          ... Murdock, for Christ sake, we
          have them in sight!  Murdock!  Do
          you read?!!  We're going down.

                         LIFER
          You're not going anywhere.

Lifer holds a rifle in their direction.

                         TRAUTMAN
          What the Hell are you doing?!

                         ERICSON
          Can't do that.

                         TRAUTMAN
          That's an order!

                         ERICSON
                  (implacable)
          We're independent contractors.  We
          take our orders from who's paying.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Goddamn mercenaries!  There's men
          down there!  Our men!

                         LIFER
          Not our men, your men!  Don't be a
          hero.

Trautman reaches for his holstered .45, a voice stops him.

                         LIFER
          ... Don't.

Trautman turns and sees Lifer aiming a rifle not exactly
at him but not away either.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY

Rambo half-supports Banks with one arm and FIRES his AK
with the other.

The rifle is empty and he drops it.  MORTAR ROUNDS EXPLODE
on all sides.  They watch the A109 skimming in low across
the tree tops, almost to them... hovers and then...

It veers in a tight bank and climbs out.

Heads away.

The dust swirls around them.  A MORTAR SHELL LANDS so
close it knocks them down.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - DAY - CLOSEUP - RAMBO

as he looks at Ericson.

CLOSEUP

of Ericson.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES

Framed against the grey sky, Rambo watches as the A109
diminishes over his shoulder until it's a black dot.  He
is so consumed with rage that his expression goes slack...
blank... a murderous disconnection from conscience.

Banks looks stunned, lost.  He sags to one knee.

Rambo just keeps looking in the direction of the A109.


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - NVA - DAY

From both sides the NVA soldiers advance like ants to the
top of the ridge...


EXT.  RICE PADDIES - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo glances down almost disdainful then back at the
nearly diminished chopper.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - HILL NEARBY - DAY

Co, watching from behind foliage, as the NVA's converge on
Rambo and Banks.  Her expression enigmatic.  She turns and
disappears into the forest.


INT.  MURDOCK'S QUARTERS - DAY

Murdock is pouring scotch over ice in a glass as the DOOR
behind him BANGS OPEN.

Trautman is furious.

                         TRAUTMAN
          What're you doing?  Do you know what
          the hell you've done?!!

Murdock stands up quickly, a glass of scotch in his hand.

                         MURDOCK
          Don't act so innocent, Colonel.  You
          had your suspicions, and if you
          suspected then, you're sort of an
          accessory, aren't you?

Trautman smashes the glass from his hand.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Don't ever count me with you and
          your scum.  It was a lie, wasn't it?
          Just like the whole damn war, a lie!

                         MURDOCK
          What are you talking about?

                         TRAUTMAN
          The camp was supposed to be empty.
          Rambo goes in... a former decorated
          Vet.  He finds no P.O.W.'s.  The
          Congress buys it, case closed.  If
          he gets caught, no one knows he's
          alive except you and your computers,
          and you can reprogram that, can't
          you?

                         MURDOCK
          Who do you think you're talking to,
          Trautman?

                         TRAUTMAN
          A stinking bureaucrat trying to
          cover his ass!

                         MURDOCK
          Not just mine, Trautman, a nation's!
          It was your hero's fault.  If your
          "warrior" had done what the hell he
          was told, we'd be out of this clean
          and simple.  All he was supposed to
          do is to take pictures!

                         TRAUTMAN
          And if the pictures showed something
          they would've been lost, wouldn't
          they?!

Murdock is terribly on edge.

                         MURDOCK
          Look, I don't think you understand
          what this is all about, Trautman!

                         TRAUTMAN
          Same as it always is, money.  In
          '72 we were supposed to pay the
          "Cong" four and a half billion in
          war reparations, we reneged, and
          they kept the P.O.W.'s, and now
          you're doing it all over again!

                         MURDOCK
                  (exploding)
          And what the hell would you suggest
          we do if some burnt-out P.O.W. shows
          up on the six o'clock news -- fight
          the war all over again?  Have an
          invasion!  Bomb Hanoi?  Do you think
          anybody is going to get on the floor
          of the United States Senate and ask
          billions of dollars for a couple of
          forgotten ghosts!

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (roaring)
          Men!  Men who died for their
          country, you bastard!

                         MURDOCK
          Enough, I'm going to forget this
          meeting ever took place, and I'd
          advise you to never make the mistake
          of bringing this subject up again.

Trautman turns, starts out, then turns back to Murdock.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You're the one who's making the
          mistake...

Murdock pauses.

                         MURDOCK
          What "mistake?"

                         TRAUTMAN
                  (dryly)
          ... Rambo.

As soon as Trautman utters the name, we hear SHOUTING in
Vietnamese and the SOUND OF A BACKHAND ACROSS FLESH.


EXT.  PRISON CAMP - RAMBO - DAY

He's hung above the slime pit.  His muddy face grimaces as
it is hit by Sgt. Tay.  Tay curses him in Vietnamese.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - SGT. TAY - DAY

Powerful and vicious-looking as a rabid ferret.  He raises
one fist, and smashes it down, hitting Rambo.

There is another SICKENING IMPACT against flesh.


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - CELL - DAY

Another WHACK!  heard from across the compound.  All the
P.O.W.'s are there.

Two of them, b.g., seem completely autistic.  The others
seem to wince, as one, with Banks, as the WHACKS ECHO
across the compound.


EXT.  PRISON YARD - SLIME PIT - DAY

Off to one side of the camp in a gloomy shaded area is the
pit that is filled with slime.  It is ten feet deep, eight
feet wide.  CAPTAIN VINH, a severe-looking tyrant,
observes Sgt. Tay standing on a pair of planks near Rambo,
who is being slowly submerged in the slime up to his neck.

Sgt. Tay looks to Capt. Vinh who nods and Tay backhands
Rambo across the face.  Rambo spits.

Tay has Rambo's special knife tucked in his waistband.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - WIDE SHOT - DAY

The GRINDING SOUND of two arriving transport trucks, draws
everyone's attention... Out of the truck climb a troop of
15 Russians.  Soldiers, members of the elite Soviet
Airborne Division, dressed in dark fatigues.

From truck two 15 Vietnamese soldiers emerge.


EXT.  CAMP - HUEY - DAY

A thunderous WHIPPING SOUND is heard and the camp begins
to fill with spinning dust as an American made "Huey"
helicopter descends, landing near the guard towers.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - HUEY - DAY

The Viet officers and guards cringe against the rotor
blast as the ship settles.  The side door slides open.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo tries to see through his watering eyes, but is
blinded by the blast.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - HUEY - DAY

Out step three Russian giants in black fatigues and
berets.  They are also members of the elite Soviet 3rd
Airborne Division.  Lastly two Russian officers disembark.
They eye the Russian soldiers standing at attention.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - OFFICERS - DAY

They glance at Rambo for a split second and motion to
Captain Vinh to remove Rambo.  Vinh yells an order at a
pair of guards who start to pull at a pair of ropes and
slowly hoist Rambo from the slimy pit.


EXT.  SLIME PIT - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo is pulled upright and we can see that he is bound to
a pole in a crucified position... Upon closer inspection
we see his body is covered with at least twenty huge
blood-gorged leeches.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - OFFICERS - DAY

The two Russian officers approach and coldy eye Rambo who
is slightly suspended above them... Capt. Vinh and Sgt.
Tay stand near the Russians.  PODOVSK, the shorter,
brighter-looking of the two, pulls Rambo's knife from
Tay's waistband and, with a casual air, uses the tip of
the razor-sharp knife to sever a black leech from the base
of Rambo's neck... He handles the knife like a masterful
surgeon.

                         PODOVSK
          These people are so vulgar in their
          methods.  They lack compassion.  I
          am Lieutenant Podovsk.  I do not
          know who you are yet -- But I will.
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          ... Inside.

INT.  PRISON CAVE CELL - DAY

Through the bars, Banks and the two other P.O.W.'s can
catch a fleeting glimpse of Rambo being dragged away.  An
older PRISONER speaks up in a weak voice.

                         P.O.W. (OLDER MAN)
          He's dead now.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - DAY

Vinh sends the gawking guards scurrying with strident
yells as he follows the two Russians into the room.  The
Soviets stand in front of Rambo.  He is bare from the
waist up.  Lt. Commander Podovsk has a hard face, sharp
features.  His bearing is erect, arrogant.  He still has
Rambo's knife in his hand, which he uses like a painter
when he speaks.

The other, SGT. YUSHIN, is another story.  A tall, broad
slab of combat muscle.  His hair cut short as a scrub
brush.  Thick and functional as state sculpture, his
features cannot fill his broad, flat face Nordic
Mongolian-Circassian heritage... He wears a pine tree
patch on his shoulder denoting his status as a "plastune"
or cossack scout.

                         PODOVSK
                  (in Russian)
          In the chair.

Yushin hauls Rambo into a wooden stool against the wall.
In front of him is a radio and a transmitter.  Yushin's
eyes move over Rambo's wounds.  He looks quickly into
Rambo's eyes, then moves away from him.

Podovsk sits next to him on a small metal desk.

The only light is from a single bare bulb.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing, in Viet
                   to Vinh)
          Thank you, Captain Vinh.  Leave one
          guard please.

Vinh exits with Tay and the other three Viets.  Yushin
prepares torture equipment.

Podovsk adjusts his wire-rim glasses and considers Rambo.
He turns Rambo's bruised face gently, and examines the
marks left by the leeches.

Podovsk walks behind him and notices the long crisscrossed
scars on Rambo's chest and back.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing, painting
                   with the knife)
          I see you are no stranger to pain...
                  (pause)
          Is it possible you have been among
          my Vietnamese comrades before?  No
          answer.  I see.  Do you wish to tell
          me your name -- what harm can that
          cause?

Rambo stares through Podovsk.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          Pride is a poor substitute for
          intelligence... Well, no matter.
          What you must understand is that we
          have to interrogate you.  We will
          find out what you were doing.

He gestures to his massive assistant.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          To Sergeant Yushin, you are a piece
          of meat, a laboratory experiment.
          To me, you are a comrade similar to
          myself just opposed by a matter of
          fate.

Rambo eyes the torture equipment in Yushin's hands.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          I know you were trying to facilitate
          the release of war criminals held by
          this republic.  I can appreciate
          this --

Rambo just stares.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          But this -- your capture -- this
          incident is -- embarrassing.  You
          must understand.  We must have
          explanation.  First I wish for you
          to radio back to your headquarters
          and say you found no prisoners, that
          your operation was a failure.

Podovsk holds up the microphone.  Still no response.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          No?  You wish to test your strength
          -- very good.
                  (to Yushin)
          Proceed.

Podovsk slips the knife into a pan of smoking hot coal
that is situated in clear view of Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - YUSHIN - DAY

Yushin walks forward.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

The guard in the hollow of the tree, glances up at the
SOUND OF AN APPROACHING MOTORBIKE.  A young woman, wearing
an ao-dai and coolie hat, rides up on a scooter and stops
by the shack.  Strapped onto the scooter is the pouch
containing the bow.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - NIGHT

OVER the girl's shoulder as she steps up to the guard box
and coos something to the sentry.

He grins to see a new face among the whores from the
village, and one so pretty...


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - MAIN GATE - REVERSE ON GIRL - NIGHT

It is Co.  She dickers price through the sentry box
window.  He unlatches the gate.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

An iron bedframe has been brought in and leaned vertically
against the wall opposite the door... Charcoal smoke fills
the room.

Rambo has been tied to the frame spread-eagle by length of
wire around his ankles, neck and forearms at the elbows.
His body is contorted in agonizing pain as electricity
courses through his flesh.

                         PODOVSK
          The name --

No response from Rambo and Yushin twists a large rheostat
knob.

Rambo convulses with an explosive muscle contraction.
Slams against the springs.  His veins swell as if to
burst.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - NIGHT

The lights of the camp dim, flickering, under the current
load.


INT./ EXT.  MESS HUT - NIGHT

Vinh and Russians are eating together.  They react to the
camp lights flicker.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo slams convulsively against the electric grid formed
by the steel bed.  His teeth are clenched as if he has
tetanus.


INT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - NIGHT

They watch the lights outside come up to normal
brightness.  Banks closes his eyes, sharing a ghost of the
pain.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo hangs from his bonds, heaving and shivering.

Podovsk turns to him conversationally, as if he were an
acquaintance at work.

                         PODOVSK
          Comrade, here is something you might
          be interested in.

He draws a folded piece of paper from his pocket.  Opens
it.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          A transcript of the conversation
          between your helicopter pilot and
          his commander we intercepted.
                  (reading)
          Mmmm.  "Dragonfly... Slam Dunk."
          Colorful names.  Here we are -- "Ah,
          Coach One... we have them in sight."
          And the reply -- "Abort the
          operation immediately.  Return to
          base camp."

He jerks Rambo's head back and he graciously shows Rambo
the printout.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          It seems they abandoned you on
          direct orders.  These are the people
          you protect with your pain? -- You
          may scream.  There is no shame.

Podovsk snaps his fingers and Yushin turns the knob.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - NIGHT

Co, moving stealthily out of a barrack... as she moves the
CAMERA ANGLES DOWN to reveal the outstretched legs of a
dead soldier.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo hangs so limply that he might be dead.  Podovsk
moves in to check as Rambo's head begins to rise.

                         PODOVSK
          Good... You are strong -- The
          strongest so far -- but you are
          nearly dead -- for what?  Make the
          radio call... yes?

The door opens and Banks is shoved by Sgt. Tay.  Around
his neck is a then wire that is being twisted by Tay...
Yushin takes Banks and flings him brutally against the
wall.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          Yushin has a memento for you of
          this occasion.

Yushin presses the molten tip against Rambo's cheek
leaving a shearing triangular smoking scar... through it
all, Rambo remains trance-like, not moving at all.

Podovsk motions to Yushin, toward Banks.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing, bored)
          ... Put it in his eye.

Yushin turns as Tay jerks Banks' head back.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          If your life means nothing, perhaps
          his does.

Yushin takes the knife and begins to slowly direct the
point into the center of Banks' eye...

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          You will talk.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - TIGHT ON RAMBO - NIGHT

His eyes seem like diamond drills.  There is such
determination born of rage in his expression that Podovsk
stops.  Takes a step back.

                         PODOVSK
          ... Yes?

The knife moves closer to Banks' pupil...

                         BANKS
          Don't say nothin'!
                  (to Yushin)
          Do what you want.

The knife moves closer.  Podovsk looks at Rambo for an
answer.

                         PODOVSK
          ... Yes?

Rambo weakly nods.  Podovsk nods to his assistant who
loosens his death grip on Banks who chokes.  Yushin
replaces the knife in the hot coals.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NEAR INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Co ducks out of sight as a pair of NVA guards pause in her
path to have a cigarette.  They are distracted by the
sudden THUNDER and lightning that follows.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo is helped to the table.  He seems on the verge of
collapse... Banks leans against the wall still in the
clutches of Yushin.  THUNDER shakes the room.

                         PODOVSK
          Only fools die for a lost cause.

Rambo is roughly pushed onto a stool by an NVA guard.
Podovsk motions for Sgt. Tay to leave.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          I trust you know the proper transmit
          coordinates, yes?

Rambo nods.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing)
          You will state your name -- that
          you've been captured as a spy!  You
          will state that the mission was a
          failure and all missions will fail.
          Tell them not to attempt such
          hostile aggression again.  Do you
          understand?

                         BANKS
          Don't do it!

Yushin tightens the wire around Banks' neck.

                         PODOVSK
          Do it now!

Podovsk motions to Yushin  who releases Banks and
balefully stares at the agonized American.

                         RAMBO
          ... 220-56 Lone Wolf -- receive.

                         BANKS
                  (softly)
          Don't --

Banks is viciously slammed to the floor and we CUT on
impact -- He is now unconscious.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

The center is still manned by an assortment of military
personnel who are starting to dismantle some of the space
age equipment.

Trautman stands in the hanger.  He looks like a forlorn
soul as he stares blankly into the darkness.

Rambo's weak voice transmission manages to break through
the DIN of the operations center.

                         RAMBO (V.O.)
          Wolf Den -- This is... Lone Wolf --
          do you read?  Over.

Trautman along with nearly everyone present snaps to
attention --

                         RADIO OPERATOR
          Lone Wolf!  This is Wolf Den.
          Transmit location and status, over.

Murdock is seen rushing in, followed by Ericson.

                         MURDOCK
          What is it?!

                         RADIO OPERATOR
          ... It's Rambo, sir.

Murdock looks sharply at Trautman.


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo sits at the radio sweating profusely.  This appears
to be the hardest mental task for a tight-lipped soldier
of his caliber to perform.

                         RADIO (V.O.)
          We read you, Lone Wolf -- what is
          your position -- over.

Banks is slumped unconscious against the wall.

Yushin pulls Rambo's head back with a vicious snap.

                         RADIO OPERATOR (V.O.)
          What's your position, over?

                         PODOVSK
          ... Your position will be death if
          you do not answer.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - EXTREME CLOSEUP - NIGHT

Yushin lets Rambo's head loose.  Beads of sweat drop from
Rambo's nose as his hands tighten around the rusted
microphone.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Trautman snatches the microphone away from the operator.

                         TRAUTMAN
          John, this is Trautman -- where the
          hell are you?


INT.  INTERROGATION CELL - NIGHT

Rambo leans closer to the microphone, but still remains
silent.

                         TRAUTMAN (V.O.)
          Johnny, come in!

Rambo shifts his gaze to Podovsk, then his eyes harden
into orbs of defiant granite.

                         RAMBO
          ... Murdock.

                         TRAUTMAN (V.O.)
          He's here!


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Murdock moves forward, his body stiff with apprehension --
Trautman hands him the microphone.  Murdock looks around
as all eyes are riveted on him.

                         MURDOCK
          Rambo -- This is Murdock -- we're
          glad you're alive... where are you?
          Give us your position and we'll come
          and get you, over.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo leans forward until his lips nearly touch the
microphone.  (Lightning and THUNDER effect.)

                         RAMBO
                  (chilling)
          ... Murdock, I'm coming to get you.

Rambo strikes Yushin across the face with the
microphone... Podovsk goes for his weapon.

Yushin rises and goes for Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

The floor EXPLODES and we see Co under the floor boards
with gun in hand.  She kills the NVA soldier whose rifle
is aimed at Rambo.


INT.  INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo slams the pistol into Yushin's temple and elbows
Podovsk in the jaw.  He flings Yushin against the electric
bedframe, which jolts the huge Russian.  Rambo grabs his
knife and is about to run Podovsk through when the door
slams open.

Sgt. Tay and three soldiers enter, his expression agape.

Rambo bolts to the window.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP NEAR INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Rambo jumps through the window -- Co joins him and they
run through the darkness as the camp comes alive.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP NEAR INTERROGATION ROOM - NIGHT

Sgt. Tay and his three men turn the corner in pursuit.  Co
cuts two of them down.

Sgt. Tay drops back and yells for reinforcements.


EXT.  P.O.W. COURTYARD - NIGHT

A Russian runs up, AK-47 in hand.  Before he can fire,
Rambo spins into him with a flying kick which pitches him
onto his back, an inert heap... Rambo takes the AK-47 and
blows one of the spotlights and the guard to bits.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

The camp goes nearly black.

The second tower swings its light toward Rambo and Co.
Rambo OPENS FIRE, shattering the light and causing the
guard to dive for his life.

With Co close behind him, Rambo runs toward the compound
fence.

A running Russian and Co OPEN UP with their assault
RIFLES.  Lightning and THUNDER continues simultaneously.

The Russian is hit in the leg and dives for cover.

Rambo lifts the wire for Co to wriggle under.  His hands
bleed as the wire cuts deeply into his flesh.  Co FIRES at
several approaching guards as Rambo slips under the wire
on his back, holding the wire up with his hands, shredding
his pants.

Rambo and Co make it into the forest, running full out.
More AK's OPEN UP behind them.  Both tower PK's have been
manned again.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Preceding Rambo at a dead run, as he crashes through
foliage.  The forest is a blur.  TRACERS WHIP BY, ruler-
straight lines of red light.

BARK EXPLODES from tree trunks around them.  Leaves are
ripped into confetti.

                         RAMBO
          This way!

They angle away from the blind FIRING and spring away
along the trail, disappearing in a moment.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - NIGHT

Podovsk's nose and mouth are bleeding, he strides out of
the interrogation blockhouse followed by Yushin.  He jerks
Sgt. Tay to his feet by the collar.  He points to the
forest.

                         PODOVSK
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          Find!  Now!

Yushin releases the Viet Sergeant.  Tay weakly yells
orders to his men.

                         PODOVSK
                  (continuing, to the
                   Russians)
          Find and kill him.


INT.  HANGER - NIGHT

Murdock pacing in front of the computers.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co at a dead run, zigzag along the dark game
trail.

The path steepens and he claws at exposed roots...
climbing as much as running.  Behind them is the rising
SOUND OF HELICOPTER ROTORS.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - NIGHT

Using hand lights to follow his footprints, Tay's squad of
six guards jogs into the jungle.  Behind them, through the
trees, the Huey rises into the night.

The chopper switches on the high intensity searchlights as
it THUNDERS overhead.  Shafts of light pierce the jungle.
Sweeping.  Searching.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co are climbing rapidly, using roots as hand-
holds to ascend the steep trail.

The WHUMP-WHUMP of the HELICOPTER approaches and the glare
of light flickering behind them.

Rambo moves into a densely woven thicket.  Russians move
quietly f.g.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co run down into a dip and into thick jungle.


EXT.  FOREST - NIGHT

Rambo and Co crash through foliage as a searchlight sweeps
toward them.

It races over them backlighting them as they dive off the
trail.

The searchlight flicks past them.  Snaps back.  Tay and
his men in b.g.


INT./ EXT.  HELICOPTER - NIGHT

POV of figures running followed by spotlight.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

TRACERS rip down through the trees from the helicopter.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

Rambo and Co tear through the jungle.

They dive over the edge of a muddy ravine, dropping
through tangled vines.  Catching, clawing, dropping.  They
run on.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - NIGHT

The Russians can't target them.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO AND CO - NIGHT

They hit a solid trail and sprint, really covering ground.
The shaft of light scans back and forth behind them.  Then
farther away.  They've lost them.  For the moment.


EXT.  ABOVE JUNGLE CANOPY - NIGHT

as the chopper circles, probing with lances of light.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  ELEVATED OVERHANGING ROCKS - DAWN

Rambo and Co have taken shelter in the protective contours
of the rocks and overgrowth...

The helicopter moves off in the opposite direction... Co
and Rambo catch their breath.

                         CO
                  (softly)
          ... We safe for now -- you look like
          hell, Rambo.

                         RAMBO
          Tough night.

Rambo stares at her and almost has to smile.  She hands
over Rambo's bow kit, which was slung over her shoulder.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          ... maybe need this again.

Rambo takes the bow kit and Co looks at his bleeding
hands.

                         CO
                  (continuing, moving
                   very close)
          You hurt bad... Not so in-vo-nerable
          after all.

                         RAMBO
          ... No.

                         CO
          You rest a while, I watch.

                         RAMBO
                  (shakes his head)
          ... I'll watch.

                         CO
          ... What you do, Rambo?  Try to get
          across to Thailand?

                         RAMBO
          Yes.

                         CO
          Then America.

Rambo nods.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          You take me with you, Rambo?  I give
          you one more chance.

                         RAMBO
          ... You don't know me.

                         CO
          I know enough -- you take me?

Rambo stares at her and nods.

                         CO
                  (continuing)
          I think you make a good choice.

                         RAMBO
          ... Yeah.
                  (rises)
          Better move.

Co rises and trails behind Rambo.

NOISE.  She turns and FIRES... And Tay with four soldiers
hit the deck.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Russians and Viets nearby react, then head toward the
shots.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Sgt. Tay OPENS FIRE with a small machine gun then the
soldiers open up on Co and she is riddled to the ground.

                         RAMBO
          ... No!!!

Rambo leaps to her fallen rifle and rolling behind a
protective object, FIRES BACK and blows two of the
soldiers away... Rambo moves to another position.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Tay barks something in Viet to a soldier and slips
fearfully away.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo flanks the soldier and soldier turns to see smoking
death racing toward him.  He falls dead... Rambo rushes to
Co.

He cradles her for a moment and his expression transforms
into insane rage.

Co rolls her glazed eyes to Rambo.

                         CO
          ... You good man, Rambo... good.
          Not forget me.

Co dies in his arms and Rambo roars with grief.  The
hunted man becomes the hunter... Rambo scoops her up and
disappears into the forest.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman is there, nervously pacing, agitated.  Murdock
sits solidly behind his desk... Ericson sits on the other
side of the room.

                         MURDOCK
          Do you really think that you can
          threaten me, Colonel?

                         TRAUTMAN
          I want the rescue team ready to go
          in one hour.

                         MURDOCK
                  (almost amused)
          You're risking your career, your
          reputation and your family's
          security -- do you think any one
          person is worth that, Trautman?

                         TRAUTMAN
          ... Yes, I do.

                         MURDOCK
          I'm giving you a direct order to
          withdraw from this project.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Do I get the rescue team, or do I
          have to go over your head?

                         MURDOCK
          Colonel, it's time you understand
          I'm in charge here -- here you're a
          tool, we're the machine --
                  (to Ericson)
          I want him placed under arrest.
          He's not to leave the base.

                         TRAUTMAN
          He never had a chance did he?

                         MURDOCK
          ... Like you said, he went home.


EXT.  FOREST TRAIL - DAY

A small band of Viet soldiers are moving through the
jungle searching for Rambo.


EXT.  FOREST - TIGHT ON RAMBO'S FACE - DAY

Starts to rain.

Eyes closed, he has smeared the goo thoroughly over his
face.  It is a neolithic, feral visage.  He has buried Co
and pauses on one knee at the gravesite... around his neck
hangs her "good luck" medallion.  He has cut a strip of
her garment and with great deliberation ties it around his
head.  Rambo rises with his bow in his hand and arrows
across his back... He is the warrior and the war has now
begun.


EXT.  FOREST - ON SEVEN RUSSIANS AND A SERGEANT - DAY

Moving forward cautiously, they glide through the dense
rain and thicket.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo watches motionless -- and then kills the sergeant
and Russian #2 with arrows.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Through rain Russians materialize searching for Rambo.
Into f.g. comes a Russian, parts bushes with rifle, turns
past hollow tree.  An arm comes out and pulls him in.  He
stiffens as Rambo's knife kills him.


EXT.  FOREST - MED.  RAMBO - DAY

moving in absolute silence nearby.  He freezes and raises
his bow.  Thirty meters away are the Russians... An arrow
sinks into Russian #3's chest... Russian #4 and #5 sprint
away... To a different position for defense they motion to
split up and a second arrow burrows into Russian #4's
chest and lungs as he moves.  He falls dead and Russian #5
is frozen, until he sees what appears to be Rambo's
fleeing form and takes chase.


EXT.  FOREST - VIET GUARDS - DAY

wave their AK's, looking for some sign of Rambo.  They
hear SOMETHING CRASHING through the downpour and
undergrowth.  Movement in dense brush.  They OPEN FIRE.

The CRASH OF SUSTAINED FIRE is deafening.  They BLAST
blindly.

Their attention is so focused, the DIN SO LOUD, they do
not notice a dark figure moving up behind them.

Rambo snatches the wayward last guard into a thicket.  A
knife slashes, one Viet guard drops dead.

Tay shouts repeatedly to cease firing and the others
finally stop.

                         TAY
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          We got him!

They move away, advancing on their "target".  Tay gingerly
parts woven branches, revealing Russian #5 riddled with
hundreds of 7.62mm rounds.


EXT.  FOREST - VIET GUARDS - DAY

Tay barks at his men to sweep the area in an arc.  The
guards advance, stricken with a growing unease.


EXT.  FOREST - BLACK HOLE - DAY

Rambo traps Russian #6 with a vine around his feet.  He
slides down into a black hole and Rambo slits his throat.


EXT.  FOREST - TWO RUSSIANS - DAY

They separate near a mudbank, one going over the
embankment... the other near the river's edge.

                         RUSSIAN #8
          No, this way... where are you?

In the incessant rain, Russian #8 moves cautiously to his
comrade's last position.  Ahead, face down in the mud, is
the body of Russian #7.

Approaching the body, the frightened Russian looks around
in full circle.  Nothing.  He moves by a mudbank.


EXT.  FOREST - MUDBANK/MUDHOLE - DAY

Rambo comes out of the mudhole and breaks Russian #8's
neck.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Realizing they are without their flankers, Tay and four
Viet Guards call out and move toward their last positions.
They stand together at the top of the mudbank, gaping at
the two bodies of Russian #7 and #8.  Tay stares around,
outraged.  He yells to his squad to take up the chase.


EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo bursts out of the dense tangle, dragging streamers
of vines, and finds himself in an EXPLOSION OF SQUAWKING
CHICKENS.

He is in the muddy door-yard of a rural hutch, part of a
small hamlet, of about a dozen buildings.  Pigs scatter,
GRUNTING their surprise, as Rambo sprints across the yard.
Over a low rail fence.  Between the hutches.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

Soldiers charge down the slope behind him.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

Rambo emerges onto the main "street" at a dead run,
tearing a swath through the everyday village activities.

The Viet peasants scatter as the fierce American charges
through their midst.  A giant by their standards to begin
with, Rambo is now a mud-caked nightmare, trailing vines
and brambles... his face a mask of dark streaks topped by
encrusted hair... Villagers scream and flee... Rambo drops
low looking frantically for something beneath a hutch...
not finding it, he moves quickly to another... noticing a
large can, opens it, and smells its contents.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

WIDE FROM BEHIND the soldiers as they pour into the
village.  A figure dashes from the hutch into the field of
tall grass, disappearing.


EXT.  ROAD - EDGE OF GRASS - DAY

Two troop trucks are deploying 40 soldiers.  Directing
operations is Capt. Vinh.

Vinh motions the soldiers impatiently toward where he
stands at the edge of the elephant grass, and they wade
into it.  Beyond them the coarse grass becomes an
impenetrable wall almost eight feet high.

Vinh snorts in disgust and points at some trampled stalks.
There is a bright smear of blood, and beyond, another.

                         VINH
                  (Viet/subtitled)
          You see?  Not a demon.  A man.  Now,
          we find where he's crawled to die.


EXT.  TALL GRASS - DAY

A line of 20 regulars and three Russians move into the
grass.  Only the radio antennas of the squad leaders are
visible above the waving stalks.  Yushin's helicopter arcs
in from the distant ridgeline, converging.


EXT.  ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

POV MOVING SLOWLY THROUGH THE GRASS.  The point man parts
the stalks ahead.  It is a quiet, eerie world, with only
the SWISH OF THE GRASS and the occasional SOUND-OFF CALLS
of the troopers.  There is a clear trail of blood smeared
on the grass, indicating a serious wound.

VARIOUS CLOSEUPS of the regulars as they advance, each man
realizing how utterly isolated he really is, in his own
island of space in the green sea.  It is hot.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

One of the Russians has his fatigues unbuttoned, sleeves
rolled up.  Sweat pours off all of them.


EXT.  GRASS POV - DAY

POV FOLLOWING the trail of blood.  The grass is parted
ahead and a small clearing comes INTO VIEW.  Slowly moving
up on something lying in the grass.  Two chickens, their
throats cut, are lying beside a kerosene can, which is
upright with its cap off.  A bizarre little shrine.  There
is no sign of Rambo.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

REVERSE on Capt. Vinh, puzzled, wary.

                         VINH
          Everyone back!!


EXT.  GRASS - INSERT RAMBO - DAY

INSERT/RAMBO'S HAND striking a match, igniting a wet trail
of spilled gas, a WHOOSH.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

Capt. Vinh looks up, seeing the river of fire snaking
toward him through the waving stalks.

He turns, panicked.  Crashes into the men behind him.

Shrieks at them to move.  They trample over each other to
run as the trail of fire reaches the can.

VOOM!


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

Vinh sees a tremendous fireball erupt ahead.  Hears
SCREAMING.  He freezes in his tracks as the nightmare
begins again.  Shrieking, a man runs toward him, on fire,
charging past.  Vinh shouts futilely into a radio as he's
engulfed in fire.


EXT.  GRASS - DAY

FIRING blindly, several troopers OPEN UP until they are
engulfed in the fire.


EXT.  HAMLET ROAD - DAY

From the trucks it is apparent that the grass is burning
on its own, in a long line where the "fuse" was laid out
and in a widening circle around the explosion site.


EXT.  EDGE OF GRASS - DAY

Black smoke rolls through the grass, and troopers stumble
about, coughing as the wind carries it toward them.


EXT.  HILL ABOVE ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

CLOSEUP of Rambo as he drops a small silver explosive
charge into arrow shaft and screws on the razor tip.


EXT.  HILL ABOVE ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

Rambo draws back his bow to full extension, and from his
elevated position, takes aim at the first troop truck...
The arrow buries itself near the truck and EXPLODES...
missing the truck.


EXT.  HILLSIDE - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo adjusts the sites on the bow and releases another
arrow.


EXT.  HAMLET - DAY

This time the arrow finds its mark and the truck EXPLODES.


EXT.  ELEPHANT GRASS - DAY

On the edge of the elephant grass, troopers help each
other flee.

Random FIRING is everywhere.  The DIN is incredible, the
pandemonium absolute.


EXT.  HILL - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo looks down into the field at devastation as flames
curl high into the morning mist... He pauses and almost
looks reflective for a moment... the copter moves closer
to Rambo's position.

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  FOREST - DAY

Rambo's sixth sense causes him to glance behind and he
spots Sgt. Tay's men approaching... Tay spies Rambo and
they OPEN FIRE.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

With his bow still in his hand, lunges from view behind a
tree... He starts to belly crawl into the brush, as Tay
and three other soldiers think they have him pinned
down...


EXT.  FOREST - TAY - DAY

He signals and orders the men to flank the tree.  They do,
but are flanked by Rambo who steps INTO VIEW at a right
angle to their position and CUTS THEM DOWN, but is soon
out of ammo.


EXT.  FOREST - TAY - DAY

From his hiding spot Tay observes this and starts toward
Rambo after FIRING off a couple of shots.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

He flees and takes cover behind a tree just as the bark is
ripped off near his head by Tay's AUTO-FIRE... Rambo dives
into the brush and instantly disappears from view.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - TAY - DAY

With growing apprehension, he moves forward, his body
tense, sensing the kill!  He hears Rambo's voice from
behind.

                         RAMBO
          Here!

Tay turns and with his rifle at the ready, faces Rambo on
one knee with his bow fully extended.  The arrow sinks
into his chest, and Tay FIRES spasmodically.  For a split
second he grabs the un-extractable shaft and Rambo dives
for cover.  Tay's eyes widen with sudden realization, and
the next second his body EXPLODES into fragments.

                                            CUT TO:

INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin talks into his radio headset.

                         YUSHIN
                  (Russian/subtitled)
          Drop the napalm!

EXT.  HUEY - YUSHIN'S POV RAMBO - DAY

Through the trees' canopy, Yushin can see Rambo flashing
in and out of view.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

watching as two long metal cylinders detach from the
helicopter and drop, tumbling toward the forest.


EXT.  FOREST - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo recognizes the napalm canisters and sprints even
harder.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

Rambo slashes through the trees like a madman.

Behind him, the napalm cannisters hit the ground.

An enormous FIREBALL blossoms through the jungle, spewing
twenty-meter-long arcs of flame, silhouetting the tiny
running figure of Rambo.


EXT.  RAIN FOREST - DAY

Just as the firestorm reaches him, he dives at a dead run
off an embankment into a mountain river.


EXT.  RIVER - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo dives in as a sun-bright canopy of fire rushes
across the surface with a MUFFLED ROAR.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

Surfacing, Rambo, moves at giddy speed over the tortuous
stream bed.


EXT.  RAVINE - WATERFALL - DAY

Rambo tumbles clear of the falling water as he drops down
the face of the cataract.

He hits the surface of the pool with a tremendous splash.


EXT.  POOL OF WATER - DAY

Boiling with turbulence as he surfaces, gasping.

Above, on the escarpment, a fire-storm rages, lighting up
the jungle.


EXT.  HUEY - TREELINE - DAY

as the Huey swoops down past the treeline, scanning the
jungle along the riverbank.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin swoops down toward Rambo who gasps for air.  The
MINIGUN BLASTS at him.

                         YUSHIN
                  (Russian/subtitled)
          Goddamn him!!

                                            CUT TO:

EXT.  RIVER - DAY

as Rambo breaks the surface of the water, eyes the
approaching chopper and dives again as the BULLETS start
pouring forth from the MINIGUN.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

as the Huey descends over the treeline.  Yushin orders his
pilot down for a closer look.

The Huey hovers only inches from the water.  The water
swirls from the power of the rotor blades.


EXT.  RIVER - HUEY - DAY

as the surface EXPLODES and rising like a spirit from
hell, Rambo springs up from the river and grabs hold of
one of the skids.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin's door gunner swings his M-60 around to bear on
Rambo.  But it's too late.

Rambo's hand shoots up and pulls him out.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

The pilot feels the weight shift and looks back, sees
Rambo on the skid.  He "pulls pitch" hard.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

The Huey climbs, arcing radically.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo slips.  Dangles.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

He crashes through the upper branches of a tree as the
Huey climbs, banking in a tight arc.

He manages to heave himself up.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Yushin spins to see a filthy, blood-encrusted Rambo coming
through the gun door.  Yushin charges as Rambo swings
inside.

Yushin draws his revolver but Rambo tackles him and drives
him into the control panel.

With his free hand, Yushin grabs Rambo violently by the
face digging his fingers into his eyes.

Rambo grimaces in agony.  He takes the side of his hand
and drives it into Yushin's throat.  He breaks the hold.
Rambo elbows him across the jaw.

Yushin grabs Rambo and flings him roughly against the
opposite side of the chopper.  He then kicks Rambo twice
and is about to stomp him when Rambo rolls to his knees
and drives his shoulder into Yushin's crotch and standing,
rams the Russian forward.  Yushin grabs Rambo's neck and
is crushing the life out of him... Rambo manages to drop
and twist free and kick Yushin in the face.

The pilot sees what is happening.  He banks hard, trying
to get Rambo to fall out the open door.

Rambo stumbles backward, but manages at the last second to
grab the barrel of the M-60 doorgun and is suspended out
the door.

Yushin grabs his pistol and aims as Rambo grabs his boot
knife with his free hand and flings it into Yushin's
chest...

The Russian staggers back then forward and raises his
pistol at Rambo.  At the last second he collapses and
falls forward and past Rambo who manages to pull his knife
from the Russian's body as he is falling.

The pilot struggles to maintain control and looks
terrified as Rambo swings up and advances on him.


EXT.  RIVER - DAY

A figure tumbles from the low-flying Huey and splashes
into the estuary.  The Huey dips and bucks, then rights
itself and flies off.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Murdock looks like he hasn't slept in days.

Ericson approaches.

                         ERICSON
          It's time...

                         MURDOCK
          Yeah.  Alert everyone, start
          packing, we're pulling out now.

Trautman walks in and hears the above.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You're what?

                         MURDOCK
          It's finished, Colonel...

Murdock exits.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAY

The SOUND OF A ROTOR gets louder.

A shadow falls upon the ten Viets and four Russians left
to guard the camp.

A shape, an outline... in the glare of the sun.

Then...


EXT.  RAMBO'S HUEY - DAY

Rambo unleashes the MINIGUN.  The left guard tower
vanishes in a cloud of falling splinters as THUNDER rolls
across the valley.

The Huey pivots nimbly.  The MINIGUN ROARS again.  An
orange lightning bolt vaporizes the right tower.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - GUARD BARRACKS - DAY

Three guards in the guards' barracks SHOOT at Rambo...
They are destroyed.


EXT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - DAY

Prisoners watch from their cell.


INT.  RAMBO'S HUEY POV - DAY

The guard barracks seems to disintegrate as the MINIGUN
sweeps across it... a shock wave of destruction behind
which only flying kindling remains.

He pivots a last time and annihilates the sentry post with
a one-second BURST.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP TRUCK - DAY

A few soldiers have managed to take cover behind a truck
by the main gate.  They begin FIRING.


EXT.  HUEY - LOW ANGLE - DAY

A ROARING silhouette in the metallic mist.  The MINIGUN
SPEAKS.

The truck is ripped open like aluminum foil, shrapnel
flying.  The soldiers cease to exist.

It is all over in seconds.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - DAY

The Huey settles to earth in the center of the compound.


EXT.  CAMP - DAY

Out of the boiling, blasting dust and smoke, the figure of
Rambo suddenly emerges.

Death incarnate encrusted with dried mud, dried blood,
streaked with rivulets of sweat.

Rambo has detached the door gun from its sling and with
the feed belt over his shoulder, carries it like a rifle.
He runs forward.


EXT.  PRISONERS' CAVE - DAY

Rambo moves to the prisoner's cage in a battle-ready
stance... Everywhere around him is smoking destruction.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP TREE - DAY

Hidden behind a tree, one Russian OPENS FIRE... Next to
the Russian is a mound of smooth rock.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAVE - RAMBO - DAY

Rambo FIRES at the rock.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP - TREE - DAY

The bullets ricochet off and kill the Russian who staggers
out and falls face down.


EXT.  P.O.W. CAVE - DAY

Rambo runs to the prisoner's cage.  He shoots off the lock
and rips open the gate.  The five prisoners stare at him
in wide-eyed amazement.

                         RAMBO
          Let's go!


EXT.  P.O.W. CAMP COURTYARD - DAY

The five prisoners are helping one another into the Huey
as Rambo carries a sixth.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Once aboard, the P.O.W.'s turn and look at their savior,
tears clouding some of their eyes.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Banks is covering Rambo who is hauling the last of the
P.O.W.'s onto the chopper.  Banks has an RPG slung over
his shoulder, and an AK in his hand.  A wounded Russian
opens fire and badly wounds the last P.O.W.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Banks levels his AK, killing the Russian and assists the
wounded P.O.W. on board, then climbs in himself.


EXT.  HUEY - CLOSEUP - DAY

The TURBINE WHINE INCREASES, and the Huey slowly lifts
off.



RAMBO HUEY/RUSSIAN HELICOPTER ATTACK SEQUENCE TO BE FILMED
AS PER STORYBOARDS.



INT./ EXT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo seems drained of color, flying on nerve.

P.O.W.'s look forward as a broad river appears beyond a
ridgeline less than a kilometer ahead.

                         BANKS
          That's Thailand?

Rambo nods, eyes riveted straight ahead.

                         BANKS
                  (continuing, to the
                   men)
          We're home!  We're home!


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo picks up the microphone.

                         RAMBO
          Lone Wolf to Wolf Den -- Do you
          read?


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman and Murdock who have been waiting for further
transmission suddenly hear Rambo's transmission.

                         TECH
          We hear you, Lone Wolf.  Come in.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

Rambo talking into the microphone.

                         RAMBO
          Prepare for emergency landing.
          Arriving with American P.O.W.'s!
          Over?


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Everyone freezes as they wait for orders from Murdock...
He remains silent -- eyes are shifting.  Ericson looks at
Trautman who yells...

                         TRAUTMAN
          You heard.  Prepare for arriving
          P.O.W.'s.

The personnel await Murdock's confirmation -- there is
none forthcoming.  They look at Trautman, then suddenly
begin to scatter.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo's burning Huey descends toward the landing field.
As the techs and other camp personnel stand watching,
Murdock raises a pair of powerful field glasses.


EXT.  HANGER - MURDOCK'S POV - TELEPHOTO - DAY

The image of the burning, mortally wounded Huey seems to
waver through the long lens.  It looks like a death ship,
the Flying Dutchman with a crew of corpses and a demon at
the helm, coming in out of the sky.


EXT.  HANGER - MURDOCK - DAY

He slowly lowers the glasses.

Face ashen, Murdock heads into the operations hanger.


INT.  HUEY - DAY

The chopper is burning badly and filling with black smoke.


EXT.  HUEY - DAY

The Huey sheers sideways across the staging area.  Its
skids clip the top of the wires shearing off
communications gear.

It hits the ground.  Bounces and plows forward into the
operations hanger.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Firefighters with extinguishers envelop the burning
chopper in foam.


INT.  HANGER - HUEY - DAY

The P.O.W.'s are pulled from the chopper.


INT.  HANGER - RAMBO - DAY

He slides out of the flight seat and goes out the door.
He quickly eyes Trautman then moves off into the hanger.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

DOLLYING with Rambo as he heads past the mountain of
communications equipment with relentless determination.
The technical personnel fall back, letting him pass...
Dust is everywhere.


INT.  HANGER - TRAUTMAN - DAY

He sees Rambo and strides forward to intercept him, then
pauses.


INT.  HANGER - RAMBO - DAY

He shoves the equipment aside that is blocking his path to
Murdock, who is seen retreating.  Ericson stands in his
way.  Rambo, without breaking stride, clubs him with the
butt of his knife.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo moving, silhouetted, closer to the HUMMING
communications area, reeking of jungle, blood and death...
Murdock is against the wall... no where to hide.


INT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo closes in on Murdock, looming.  Murdock starts to
move away, Rambo grabs him from behind, spins him down on
top of a crate and raises his knife.

                         RAMBO
          We win... you lose!  Mission
          Accomplished!

And with all his strength impales it next to Murdock's
terrified face.

                         RAMBO
                  (softly)
          There's more men still out there,
          find them, or I'll find you.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Rambo steps steadily out into the waning light.  He takes
a deep, slow breath.  Starts to walk and sees Banks in the
distance.

                         BANKS
                  (weakly)
          ... Thanks.

Rambo nods back...

In the b.g., they are carrying the P.O.W.'s stretchers or
pushing them in wheelchairs toward the medical facility.

Everyone stares at Rambo with respect.


EXT.  HANGER - DAY

Trautman steps in alongside Rambo.

                         TRAUTMAN
          John... Where are you going?

                         RAMBO
          ... I don't know.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You'll get a second medal of honor
          for this.

                         RAMBO
          You should give it to them...
                  (indicates P.O.W.'s)
          They deserve it more.

                         TRAUTMAN
          You can't keep running.  You're free
          now... Come back with us.

                         RAMBO
          Back to what? -- My friends died
          here... part of me died here.

                         TRAUTMAN
          John, the war, everything that
          happened here may have been wrong,
          but dammit, John, you can't hate
          your country for it.

                         RAMBO
          Hate? -- I'd die for it.

                         TRAUTMAN
          Then, what is it you want?

                         RAMBO
          What do I want?  I want what they
          want...
                  (indicates P.O.W.'s)
          And what every other guy who came
          over here and spilled his guts and
          gave everything he had wants... for
          our country to love us as much as we
          love it... That's what I want.  And
          that's what they wanted.
                  (indicates P.O.W.'s)

                         TRAUTMAN
          How will you live, John?

                         RAMBO
          Day by day.

Rambo walks with his head held high until he fades into
the smoke and distance.

                                            FADE OUT.

                         THE END






