year	1981
imdb score	7.6
meta score	N/A
genre	Action
genre	Adventure
genre	Thriller
keyword	gasoline
keyword	warrior
keyword	refinery
keyword	australian
keyword	australia
keyword	highway
keyword	survivor
keyword	fuel
keyword	evil
keyword	gang
keyword	apocalypse
keyword	survival
keyword	drifter
keyword	post apocalypse
keyword	australian outback
keyword	oil
keyword	motorcycle gang
keyword	motorcycle
keyword	murder
keyword	bare butt
keyword	crossbow
keyword	colony
keyword	showdown
keyword	apology
keyword	biker
keyword	car
keyword	masked killer
keyword	corpse with eyes open
keyword	animal death
keyword	homosexuality
keyword	person on fire
keyword	eating dog food
keyword	shaved head
keyword	paradise
keyword	biker gang
keyword	anarchy
keyword	telescope
keyword	car motorcycle chase
keyword	montage
keyword	killing a dog
keyword	blonde
keyword	feral boy
keyword	gunslinger
keyword	female warrior
keyword	bravery
keyword	homosexual
keyword	desert
keyword	finding a dead body
keyword	tough guy
keyword	leather pants
keyword	pet food
keyword	future
keyword	anti hero
keyword	part of trilogy
keyword	motorcycle cop
keyword	severed finger
keyword	mohawk haircut
keyword	hockey mask
keyword	feral child
keyword	sequel
keyword	automobile
keyword	sadomasochism clothing
keyword	wild child
keyword	gasoline truck
keyword	voice over narration
keyword	chase
keyword	auto mechanic
keyword	friend
keyword	fort
keyword	cult film
keyword	muscle car
keyword	nordenfelt gun
keyword	scorched earth policy
keyword	flamethrower
keyword	bare chested male
keyword	second part
keyword	psychotronic
keyword	one man army
keyword	shower
keyword	critically acclaimed
keyword	blood
keyword	legend
keyword	saying thank you
keyword	ambush
keyword	documentary footage
keyword	throat slitting
keyword	death of lover
keyword	bomb
keyword	exploding body
keyword	commune
keyword	molotov cocktail
keyword	warring gangs
keyword	mute
keyword	explosion
keyword	blockbuster
keyword	truck
keyword	gyrocopter
keyword	marauder
keyword	18 wheeler
keyword	demolition derby
keyword	blond man
keyword	sawed off shotgun
keyword	digit in title
keyword	dog
keyword	butt flap
keyword	ex motorcycle cop
keyword	character says i'm sorry
keyword	black leather
keyword	good versus evil
keyword	sequel to cult favorite
keyword	killing an animal
keyword	ex policeman
keyword	boomerang
keyword	male nudity
keyword	happy birthday to you
keyword	isolation
keyword	second in trilogy
keyword	ex cop
keyword	loner
keyword	numbered sequel
keyword	oil tanker
keyword	warlord
keyword	car chase
keyword	black comedy
keyword	car truck chase
keyword	blood on face
keyword	compound bow
keyword	epic
keyword	hero
keyword	madman
keyword	opening action scene
keyword	binoculars
keyword	friendship
keyword	screaming man
keyword	night
keyword	boy
keyword	cruelty
keyword	human eats dog food
keyword	middle east
keyword	death
keyword	action hero
keyword	exploding car
keyword	death of dog
keyword	independent film
keyword	number in title
keyword	character name in title
keyword	surprise ending
keyword	
cast	Mel Gibson	Max
cast	Bruce Spence	The Gyro Captain
cast	Michael Preston	Pappagallo
cast	Max Phipps	The Toadie
cast	Vernon Wells	Wez
cast	Kjell Nilsson	The Humungus
cast	Emil Minty	The Feral Kid
cast	Virginia Hey	Warrior Woman
cast	William Zappa	Zetta
cast	Arkie Whiteley	The Captain's Girl
cast	Steve J. Spears	Mechanic
cast	Syd Heylen	Curmudgeon
cast	Moira Claux	Big Rebecca
cast	David Downer	Nathan
cast	David Slingsby	Quiet Man
cast	Kristoffer Greaves	Mechanic's Assistant
cast	Max Fairchild	Broken Victim
cast	Tyler Coppin	Defiant Victim
cast	Jerry O'Sullivan	Golden Youth
cast	Tony Deary	Grinning Mohawker
cast	Kathleen McKay	Victim
cast	Guy Norris	Bearclaw Mohawk
cast	Anne Jones	Tent Lover
cast	James McCardell	Tent Lover
cast	Harold Baigent	Voice of Narrator
cast	Joanne Samuel	Jessie
