year	1999
imdb score	7.1
meta score	N/A
genre	Biography
genre	Drama
keyword	film director
keyword	movie studio
keyword	reference to thomas ince
keyword	director
keyword	reference to david o selznick
keyword	reference to dolores del rio
keyword	film studio
keyword	reference to jack warner
keyword	hollywood california
keyword	kenosha wisconsin
keyword	1940s
keyword	reference to peter lorre
keyword	reference to samuel goldwyn
keyword	newspaper headline
keyword	reference to harry cohn
keyword	actress
keyword	censorship
keyword	millionaire
keyword	studio boss
keyword	reference to frank capra
keyword	reference to william shakespeare
keyword	bankruptcy
keyword	anti semitism
keyword	film industry
keyword	masterpiece
keyword	reference to j. edgar hoover
keyword	screenwriter
keyword	reference to tom mix
keyword	reference to rita hayworth
keyword	filmmaking
keyword	based on documentary
keyword	jewish american
keyword	wisconsin
keyword	media tycoon
keyword	mistress
keyword	inspiration
keyword	reference to victor mature
keyword	based on true story
keyword	number in title
keyword	
cast	Liev Schreiber	Orson Welles
cast	James Cromwell	William Randolph Hearst
cast	Melanie Griffith	Marion Davies
cast	John Malkovich	Herman Mankiewicz
cast	Brenda Blethyn	Louella Parsons
cast	Roy Scheider	George Schaefer
cast	Liam Cunningham	Gregg Toland
cast	David Suchet	Louis B. Mayer
cast	Fiona Shaw	Hedda Hopper
cast	Anastasia Hille	Carole Lombard
cast	Roger Allam	Walt Disney
cast	Simeon Andrews	John Houseman
cast	William Armstrong	Mr. Lewis
cast	Jay Benedict	Darryl Zanuck
cast	Ron Berglas	David O. Selznick
cast	Paul Birchard	Top Brass #2
cast	Neil Conrich	Mr. Thomson
cast	Michael Cronin	Joseph Willicombe
cast	Sarah Franzl	Dorothy Comingore
cast	Briony Glassco	Script Girl
cast	Louis Hammond	Flunkie #2
cast	Aaron Keeling	Young Orson Welles
cast	Joseph Long	Harry Cohn
cast	Gareth Marks	Top Brass #1
cast	Olivier Pierre	Sam Goldwyn
cast	Roger Rose	News Reader
cast	Rolf Saxon	Flunkie #1
cast	Adrian Schiller	Paul Stewart
cast	Kerry Shale	Bernard Herrmann
cast	Cyril Shaps	Jeweller
cast	Tusse Silberg	Welles's Mother
cast	Toby Whithouse	Sound Technician
cast	Tim Woodward	Jack Warner
cast	Angus Wright	Joseph Cotten
cast	Melissa Hartzel	Showgirl
cast	Bobby Valentino	Clark Gable
cast	Lucy Cohu	Dolores Del Rio
