REBECCA

I
Last night I dreamt I went to Manderley again. It seemed to me I stood 
by the iron gate leading to the drive, and for a while I could not 
enter, for the way was barred to me. Then, like all dreamers, I was 
possessed of a sudden with supernatural powers and passed like a spirit 
through the barrier before me. The drive wound away in front of me, 
twisting and turning as it had always done, but as I advanced I was 
aware that a change had come upon it. Nature had come into her own 
again, and, little by little, had encroached upon the drive with long, 
tenacious fingers. On and on wound the poor thread that had once been 
our drive, and finally there was Manderley -- Manderley, secretive and 
silent. Time could not mar the perfect symmetry of those walls. 
Moonlight can play odd tricks upon the fancy -- and suddenly it seemed 
to me that light came from the windows. And then a cloud came upon the 
moon and hovered an instant like a dark hand before a face. The 
illusion went with it. I looked upon a desolate shell -- with

I
No! Stop!

MAXIM
What the devil are you shouting about? Who are you? What are you 
staring at?

I
I -- I'm sorry. I didn't mean to stare. But -- I -- I only thought... 

MAXIM
Oh, you did, did you? Well, what are you doing here?

I
I was only walking.

MAXIM
Well, get on with your walking! Don't hang about here screaming!

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I'll never come to Monte Carlo out of season again. Not a single well-
known personality in the hotel. Stone cold! Waiter, gar on! Call him. 
Tell him to get me some... 

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Why, it's Max de Winter. How do you do?

MAXIM
How do you do?

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I'm Edith Van Hopper. It's so nice to run into you here, just when I 
was beginning to despair of finding any old friends here in Monte. But 
do sit down and have some coffee. Mr. de Winter is having some coffee 
with me. Go and ask that stupid waiter for another cup.

MAXIM
I'm afraid I must contradict you. You shall both have coffee with me. 
Gar on!

WAITER
Oui, Monsieur.

MAXIM
Coffee, please.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Cigarette?

MAXIM
No thank you.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
You know, I recognized you just as soon as you came in, though I 
haven't seen you since that night at the Casino in Palm Beach. Perhaps 
you don't remember an old woman like me. Are you playing the tables 
much here at Monte?

MAXIM
No, I'm afraid that sort of thing ceased to amuse me years ago.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I can well understand that. As for me, if I had a home like Manderley, 
I should certainly never come to Monte. I hear it's one of the biggest 
places in that part of the country and you just can't beat it for 
beauty.

MAXIM
And what do you think of Monte Carlo? Or don't you think of it at all?

I
Oh, well -- I -- I think it's rather artificial... 

MRS. VAN HOPPER
She's spoiled, Mr. de Winter. That's her trouble. Most girls would give 
their eyes for the chance to see Monte.

MAXIM
Wouldn't that rather defeat the purpose?

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Now that we've found each other again, I hope I shall be seeing 
something of you. You must come and have a drink in my suite. I hope 
they've given you a good room. The place is empty, so if you're 
uncomfortable, mind you make a fuss. Your valet has unpacked for you, I 
suppose?

MAXIM
I'm afraid I don't possess one. Perhaps you'd like to do it for me?

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Well -- I (laughs) I hardly think er... perhaps you could make yourself 
useful to Mr. de Winter, if he wants anything done. You're a capable 
child in many ways.

MAXIM
That's a charming suggestion, but I'm afraid I cling to the old motto: 
"He travels fastest who travels alone." Perhaps you've not heard of it. 
Good night.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
What do you make of that? Do you suppose that sudden departure was 
intended to be funny? Come, don't sit there gawking! Let's go upstairs. 
Have you got the key?

I
Yes, Mrs. Van Hopper.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I remember when I was younger there was a well-known writer who used to 
dart down the back way whenever he saw me coming. I suppose he was in 
love with me and wasn't quite sure of himself. Well, c'est la vie! By 
the way, my dear, don't think that I mean to be unkind, but you were 
just a teeny weeny bit forward with Mr. de Winter. Your effort to enter 
the conversation quite embarrassed me, and I'm sure it did him. Men 
loathe that sort of thing. Oh, come, don't sulk. After all, I am 
responsible for your behavior here. Perhaps he didn't get over his 
wife's death. They say he simply adored her.

I
Oh! Oh, how awkward of me. What a stupid thing to do.

I
Oh, I'm so sorry. Please don't bother, it doesn't really matter.

MAXIM
Leave that -- leave that -- Go and lay another place at my table. 
Mademoiselle will have lunch with me.

I
Oh, well, I -- I coudn't possibly.

MAXIM
Why not?

I
Oh, well, please don't be polite. I... it's very kind of you, but I'll 
be all right if they just change the cloth.

MAXIM
I wasn't being polite. I should have asked you to lunch with me even if 
you hadn't upset the vase so clumsily. Come along. We needn't talk to 
each other if we don't feel like it.

I
Thank you very much.

I
Oh, I... I'll just ha -- have some -- some scrambled eggs.

WAITER
Oui, Mademoiselle.

MAXIM
What's happened to your friend?

I
Oh, she's ill in bed with a cold.

MAXIM
I'm sorry I was so rude to you yesterday. The only excuse I can offer 
is that I've become borish through living alone.

I
You weren't really. You simply wanted to be alone, and... 

MAXIM
Tell me -- is Mrs. Van Hopper a friend of yours or just a relation?

I
No, she's my employer. I'm what is known as a paid companion.

MAXIM
Hah, I didn't know companionship could be bought.

I
I looked up the word "companion" in the dictionary once. It said a 
"friend of the bosom."

MAXIM
I don't envy you the privilege.

I
Oh, she's very kind, really, and... I have to earn my living.

MAXIM
Haven't you any family?

I
No. My -- my mother died years and years ago, and -- then there was 
only my father... and he died last summer. Then I took this job.

MAXIM
How rotten for you.

I
Yes, it was rather, because, you see, we got on so well together.

MAXIM
You and your father?

I
Yes, he was a lovely person -- very unusual.

MAXIM
What was he?

I
A painter.

MAXIM
Ha-a-a... was he a good one?

I
Well, I thought so, but people -- didn't understand him.

MAXIM
Yes, that's often the trouble.

I
He -- he painted trees -- it... at least it was one tree.

MAXIM
You mean he painted the same tree over and over again?

I
Yes, you see -- he had a theory that if you should find one perfect 
thing, or place, or person, you should stick to it. Do you think that's 
very silly?

MAXIM
Not at all. I'm a firm believer in that myself. What did you find to do 
with yourself while he was -- painting his tree?

I
Oh, I sat with him, and I sketched a little. I don't do it very well 
though.

MAXIM
Were you going sketching this afternoon?

I
Yes.

MAXIM
Where?

I
Oh, I haven't made up my mind.

MAXIM
I'll drive you somewhere in the car.

I
Oh, no. Please... I didn't mean... 

MAXIM
Oh, nonsense. Finish up that mess and we'll get along.

I
Thank you. It's very kind of you, but -- I'm not very hungry.

MAXIM
Oh, come on, eat it up like a good girl.

MAXIM
You've taken long enough with that sketch. I shall expect a really fine 
work of art.

I
Oh, no, don't look at it, it's not nearly good enough.

MAXIM
Oh, it can't be as bad as all that. Now don't rub it all out. Let me 
see it first.

I
Well, it's the perspective. I never can get it right.

MAXIM
Let me... Oh, dear! Tell me, is it the perspective that gives my nose 
that curious twist in the middle?

I
You're not a very easy subject to sketch.

MAXIM
No?

I
Your expression keeps changing all the time.

MAXIM
Does it? Well, I'd -- I'd concentrate on the view instead, if I were 
you. It's much more worthwhile. Rather reminds me of our coastline at 
home. Do you know Cornwall at all?

I
Yes, I went there once with my father on a holiday. I -- I was in a 
shop once, and... I saw a postcard with a beautiful house on it, right 
by the sea. And I asked whose house it was, and the old lady said, 
"That's Manderley!" I felt ashamed for not knowing.

MAXIM
Manderley is beautiful. To me, it's just the place where I was born... 
have lived in all my life. Now, I don't suppose I shall ever see it 
again.

I
Well, we're lucky not to er... be home during the bad weather, aren't 
we?

MAXIM
Huh... 

I
I -- I can't ever remember enjoying swimming in England until June, can 
you? The water's so warm here that I could stay in all day. There's a 
dangerous undertow, and there was a man drowned here last year. I never 
have any fear of drowning, have you?

MAXIM
Come -- I'll take you home.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Oh, yes. I know Mr. de Winter well. I knew his wife too. Before she 
married she was the beautiful Rebecca Hildreth, you know. She was 
drowned, poor dear, while she was sailing near Manderley. He never 
talks about it, of course, but he's a broken man. I suppose I better 
have it. Wretched stuff! Give me a chocolate, quick.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Oh, there you are. It's about time. Hurry up, I want to play some 
rummy.

MRS. VAN HOPPER'S VOICE
She was the beautiful Rebecca Hildreth, you know. They say he simply 
adored her. She was the beautiful Rebecca Hildreth, you know. I suppose 
he just can't get over his wife's death. She was the beautiful Rebecca 
Hildreth, you know. But he's a broken man.

I
Bon jour.

NURSE
Bon jour.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Well, where are you going?

I
Oh, I thought I'd take a tennis lesson.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Oh, I see. I suppose you've had a look at the pro and he's desperately 
handsome, and you've conceived a schoolgirl crush on him. All right, go 
ahead, make the most of it.

MAXIM
Off duty?

I
Oh, yes. Mrs. Van Hopper's cold has turned into flu, so she's got a 
trained nurse.

MAXIM
Oh, I'm for the nurse. You keen on tennis?

I
No, not particularly.

MAXIM
That's good. We'll go for a drive.

I
Good afternoon, Mrs. Van Hopper. How are you feeling?

MRS. VAN HOPPER
You got on rather well with him, didn't you? That pro must have been 
teaching you other things than tennis. Hurry up, I want you to make 
some calls. I wonder if Mr. de Winter is still in the hotel.

I
May I go now?

MRS. VAN HOPPER
For the number of lessons you've had you ought to be ready for 
Wimbledon. But this will be your last -- so make the most of it. 
Trouble is, with me laid up like this, you haven't had enough to do. 
But I'm getting rid of that nurse today, and from now on you'll stick 
to your job.

I
Yes, Mrs. Van Hopper.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Nurse!

NURSE
Yes, Mrs. Van Hopper.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Are you absolutely sure you left those messages for Mr. de Winter? 

NURSE
Why, yes, Madame.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I simply can't believe it. He would most certainly have called me back. 
Oh, well, poor boy -- I simply hate to see him so alone.

I
You know, I -- I wish there could be an invention that bottled up the 
memory like perfume. And it never faded, never got stale, and whenever 
I wanted to, I could uncork the bottle and live the memory all over 
again.

MAXIM
And what particular moment in your young life would you want to keep?

I
Oh, all of them -- all of these last few days. I -- I feel as though I 
-- I'd collected a whole shelf full of bottles.

MAXIM
Sometimes, you know, those little bottles contain demons that have a 
way of popping out at you just as you're trying most desperately to 
forget. Stop biting your nails!

I
Oh, I wish I were a woman of thirty-six, dressed in black satin, with a 
string of pearls.

MAXIM
You wouldn't be here with me if you were.

I
Would you please tell me, Mr. de Winter, why you ask me to come out 
with you? Oh, it's obvious that you want to be kind, but -- why do you 
choose me for your charity?

MAXIM
I asked you to come out with me because I wanted your company. You've 
blotted out the past for me more than all the bright lights of Monte 
Carlo. But if you think I just asked you out of kindness or charity, 
you can leave the car now and find your own way home. Go on, open the 
door and get out!

MAXIM
Better blow your nose. Please don't call me Mr. de Winter. I have a 
very impressive array of first names. George Fortescue Maximilian. But 
you needn't bother with them all at once. My family call me Maxim. And 
another thing. Please promise me never to wear black satin or pearls, 
or to be thirty-six years old.

I
Yes, Maxim.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
For the love of Pete! Come here!

MRS. VAN HOPPER
What do you think? My daughter's engaged to be married.

I
Oh, really? How nice!

MRS. VAN HOPPER
We must leave for New York at once. Get reservations on the Aquitania, 
and we'll take the twelve-thirty train for Cherbourg. Hurry up and get 
in a maid to help with the packing! We've no time to waste. Go on and 
don't dawdle!

I
Mr. de Winter, please. Oh, he's gone out riding? He won't be back till 
noon? Oh... Give me the porter, please.

I
I'll go and see if there's anything left in my room.

I
Has Mr. de Winter come in yet? Oh, he has? Would you connect me, 
please?

I
Oh -- I -- I -- I was looking for my book. I -- I -- I suppose I packed 
it.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Well, come on. The car's waiting at the door!

I
I'd like to leave a forwarding address if they happen to find that 
book.

I
Would you ring Mr. de Winter, please?

CONCIERGE
Yes, Madam. Cent quartre-vingt-deux.

CONCIERGE
There isn't any answer.

I
Thank you --

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Tell her to hurry up!

COMMISSIONAIRE
Yes, Madam.

I
I was looking for Mr. de Winter.

WAITER
Mr. de Winter just ordered breakfast in his room, Mademoiselle.

MAXIM
Come in.

MAXIM
Hello... what are you doing here? Anything the matter?

I
I've come to say goodbye. We're going away.

MAXIM
What on earth are you talking about?

I
It's true. We're going now, and -- I was afraid I wouldn't see you 
again.

MAXIM
Where's she taking you to?

I
New York. I don't want to go. I shall hate it. I shall be miserable.

MAXIM
I'll dress in here. I shan't be long.

MAXIM
Which would you prefer, New York or Manderley?

I
Oh, please don't joke about it. Mrs. Van Hopper's waiting, and I -- I'd 
better say goodbye now.

MAXIM
I'll repeat what I said -- either you go to America with Mrs. Van 
Hopper or you come home to Manderley with me.

I
You mean you want a secretary or something?

MAXIM
I'm asking you to marry me, you little fool.

MAXIM
Come in! Is that my food? I'm famished. I didn't have any breakfast.

MAXIM
Ah, my suggestion doesn't seem to have gone at all. Well -- I'm sorry.

I
Oh, but you don't understand -- it's that -- I -- well, I'm not the 
sort of person men marry.

MAXIM
What on earth do you mean?

I
I don't belong in your sort of world, for -- for one thing.

MAXIM
Well, what is my sort of world?

I
Oh, well, Manderley -- you know what I mean.

MAXIM
Well, I'm the best judge of whether you belong there or not. Of course, 
if you don't love me, that's a different thing. Fine blow to my 
conceit, that's all.

I
Oh, I do love you! I love you most dreadfully. I've been crying all 
morning because I thought I'd never see you again!

MAXIM
Bless you for that. I'll remind you of this one day... you won't 
believe me. It's pity you have to grow up. Oh, now that's settled, you 
may pour me out some coffee. Two lumps of sugar and some milk, please. 
Same with my tea. Don't forget. Who's going to break the news to Mrs. 
Van Hopper, shall you or shall I?

I
Oh, you tell her. She'll be so angry.

MAXIM
What's the number of her room?

I
Oh, she's not there. She's -- she's downstairs in the car.

MAXIM
Hello. Give me the desk, please. Hello. You'll find Mrs. Van Hopper 
waiting outside in the car. Would you ask her with my compliments if 
she'd very kindly come and see me in my room? Yes, in my room.

CLERK
Mr. de Winter says please for you to come up to his room.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Mr. de Winter? Why certainly.

MAXIM
(laughs)This isn't at all your idea of a proposal, is it? It should be 
in a conservatory -- you in a white frock with a red rose in your hand, 
and a violin playing in the distance -- and I should be making violent 
love to you behind a palm tree. Poor darling -- never mind.

I
Oh, I don't mind.

MAXIM
Don't worry. Don't worry. You won't have to say a word.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I'm so glad you called me, Mr. de Winter. I was making a hasty 
departure, it was so rude of me not to let you know, but a cable came 
this morning announcing that my daughter is engaged to be married.

MAXIM
That's rather a coincidence, Mrs. Van Hopper. I asked you up here in 
order to tell you of my engagement.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
You don't mean it! Why how perfectly wonderful! How romantic! Who is 
the lucky lady?

MAXIM
I apologize for depriving you of your companion in this abrupt way. I 
do hope it won't inconvenience you too greatly.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
When did all this happen?

I
Just now, Mrs. Van Hopper. Just a few minutes ago.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
I simply can't believe it. And I suppose I ought to scold you for not 
having breathed a word of all this to me. What am I thinking of -- I 
should give you both my congratulations and my blessings. I'm very 
happy for you both. When and where is the wedding to be?

MAXIM
Here. As soon as possible.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
A whirlwind romance! Splendid! I can easily postpone my sailing for a 
week. This poor child has no mother, so I shall take responsibility for 
all the arrangements -- trousseau, reception, and everything. And I'll 
give the bride away. But our luggage! Go down and tell the porter to 
take everything out of the car.

MAXIM
Just a minute. We're most grateful, Mrs. Van Hopper. But I think we 
both prefer to have it all as quiet as possible. And I couldn't 
possibly allow you to change your sailing plans.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Oh, please... 

MAXIM
No, no, no. Dear, I'll go down and see that your luggage is brought 
back.

I
Thank you, Maxim.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
So this is what has been happening during my illness. Tennis lessons, 
my foot! I suppose I have to hand it to you for a fast worker. How did 
you manage it? Still waters certainly run deep! Tell me, have you been 
doing anything you shouldn't?

I
I -- I don't know what you mean.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Oh, well, never mind. I always did say that Englishmen have strange 
tastes. But you'll certainly have your work cut out as mistress of 
Manderley. To be perfectly frank with you, my dear, I can't see you 
doing it. You haven't the experience, you haven't the faintest idea 
what it means to be a great lady. Of course, you know why he's marrying 
you, don't you? You haven't flattered yourself that he's in love with 
you. Fact is that empty house got on his nerves to such an extent, he 
nearly went off his head. He just couldn't go on living alone.

I
You'd better leave, Mrs. Van Hopper. You'll miss your train.

MRS. VAN HOPPER
Huh! Mrs. de Winter! Goodbye, my dear, and good luck!

MAYOR
Monsieur! Vous avez oubliez votre carnetde mariage!

MAXIM
He says I've forgotten that proof that we're married.

I
Oh, good heavens!

MAXIM
Ah, somebody else had the same idea.

I
Isn't she sweet?

MAXIM
Yes. You'd have liked a bridal veil, wouldn't you? Or at least... 

MAXIM
Madame -- Madame -- Combien 'a fait? Tout de tout? Je vous remercie 
mille fois, Madame, merci.

I
Oh, Maxim, how lovely! Oh, how perfectly lovely! Ah -- oh, how 
perfectly lovely!

GATEKEEPER
Welcome home, Mr. de Winter!

MAXIM
Thank you, Smith!

MAXIM
Cold, darling?

I
Yes, just a little bit.

MAXIM
There's no need to be frightened, you know. Just be yourself, and 
they'll all adore you. You don't have to worry about the house at all. 
Mrs. Danvers is the housekeeper. Just leave it to her.

MAXIM
Hello -- starting to rain. Better hurry up. Here -- have this. Put it 
over your head.

I
Thank you.

MAXIM
That's it! That's Manderley!

MAXIM
Here we are. Frith, everybody well?

FRITH
Yes, thank you, sir. Glad to see you home, sir.

MAXIM
This is Mrs. de Winter, Frith.

I
How do you do?

MAXIM
I didn't expect the whole staff to be in attendance.

FRITH
Mrs. Danvers' orders, sir.

MAXIM
Oh. Sorry about this. It won't take long.

MAXIM
This is Mrs. Danvers.

I
How do you do?

Mrs. DANVERS
How do you do? I have everything in readiness for you.

I
That's very good of you. I -- I didn't expect anything.

MAXIM
I think we'd like some tea, Frith.

FRITH
Ready in the library, sir.

MAXIM
Come along, darling.

I
Oh, Maxim! Come in!

I
Oh, good evening, Mrs. Danvers.

MRS. DANVERS
Good evening, Madam. I hope Alice was satisfactory, Madam?

I
Oh, yes, thank you. Perfectly.

MRS. DANVERS
She's the parlor-maid. She'll have to look after you until your own 
maid arrives.

I
Oh, but I haven't a maid. I -- I'm sure Alice will do very nicely.

MRS. DANVERS
I'm afraid that would not do for very long, Madam. It's usual for 
ladies in your position to have a personal maid. I hope you approve the 
-- new decoration of these rooms, Madam?

I
Oh, I -- I didn't know it'd been changed. I hope you haven't been to 
too much trouble.

MRS. DANVERS
I only followed out Mr. de Winter's instructions.

I
Oh. Well, what did it look like before?

MRS. DANVERS

I
Oh, then it wasn't Mr. de Winter's room originally?

MRS. DANVERS
No, Madam. He's never used the East wing before. Of course, there's no 
view of the sea from here. The only good view of the sea is from the 
West wing.

I
The room's very charming, and I'm sure I'll be comfortable.

MRS. DANVERS
If there's anything you want done, Madam, You've only to tell me.

I
I suppose you've been at Manderley for many years -- longer than anyone 
else?

MRS. DANVERS
Not so long as Frith. He was here when the old gentleman was living -- 
when Mr. de Winter was a boy.

I
I see. And you didn't come until after that?

MRS. DANVERS
I came here when the first Mrs. de Winter was a bride.

I
Mrs. Danvers, I -- I do hope we'd be friends. Ah, you must be patient 
with me. This sort of life is new to me, and I do want to make a 
success of it and make Mr. de Winter happy. So I know I can leave all 
the household arrangements to you.

MRS. DANVERS
Very well. I hope I shall do everything to your satisfaction, Madam. 
I've managed the house since Mrs. de Winter's death, and Mr. de Winter 
has never complained.

I
I think I'll go downstairs now.

MRS. DANVERS
That room in the West wing I was telling you about is there through 
that door. It's not used now. It's the most beautiful room in the house 
-- the only one that looks down across the lawns to the sea. It was 
Mrs. de Winter's room.

FRANK
Good morning.

I
Good morning.

FRANK
You're Mrs. de Winter, aren't you?

I
Yes.

FRANK
Uh -- my name's Crawley. I -- I manage the estate for Maxim. Awfully 
glad to meet you. Fearful lot of stuff piled up while Maxim was away.

I
Yes, I -- I'm sure there must have been. I -- I, I do wish I could help 
with some of it.

MAXIM
No, no -- Frank never allows anybody to help him. Like an old mother 
hen with his bills and rents and taxes. Come on, Frank, we must go over 
these estimates.

FRANK
I'll get my papers.

MAXIM
You'll find quantities of breakfast over there. But you must eat it 
all, or cook will be mortally offended.

I
I'll do my best, Maxim.

MAXIM
I have to go over the place with Frank just to make sure he hasn't lost 
any of it. You'll be all right, won't you?

I
Um-hum.

MAXIM
Um-hum. Getting acquainted with your new home? Have a look at the Times 
-- there's a thrilling article on what's the matter with English 
cricket. Oh... yes -- er -- ah, my sister, Beatrice, and her husband, 
Giles Lacy, have invited themselves over for lunch.

I
Today?

MAXIM
Yeah. I suppose the old girl can't wait to look you over. You'll find 
her very direct. If she doesn't like you, she'll probably tell you so 
to your face. Don't worry, darling -- I'll be back in time to protect 
you from her. Goodbye, darling.

I
Goodbye, Maxim.

FRANK
Goodbye.

I
Goodbye.

FRITH
Good morning, Madam.

I
Good morning, Frith.

FRITH
Isn't there anything I could get for you, Madam?

I
Oh. No, thank you, Frith. I'm -- really not very hungry.

FRITH
The -- paper, Madam.

I
Oh, yes. Thank you, Frith.

FRITH
Madam... 

I
I slipped. Oh, thank you, Frith.

I
It's big, isn't it?

FRITH
Yes, Madam. Manderley is a big place. This was the banquet hall in the 
old days. It's still used on great occasions, such as a big dinner or a 
ball, and the public is admitted here, you know, once a week.

I
That's nice.

FRITH
I beg pardon, Madam. I'm afraid the fire is not usually lit in the 
library until the afternoon. But you will find one in the morning room. 
Of course, if you wish this fire lit now, Madam... 

I
Oh, no, Frith. I wouldn't dream of it. 

FRITH
Mrs. de Winter -- Um-m-m -- I mean, the late Mrs. de Winter always did 
her correspondence and telephoning in the morning room -- after 
breakfast.

I
Thank you, Frith.

FRITH
Is there anything wrong, Madam?

I
Oh -- no. Oh -- which way is the morning room?

FRITH
Uh, it's that door there on the left.

I
Oh, yes. Thank you.

I
Mrs. de Winter? Oh, I'm afraid you've made a mistake. Mrs. de Winter's 
been dead for over a year.

I
Oh -- I mean -- ah... oh... 

MRS. DANVERS
That was the house telephone, Madam. Probably the head gardener wishing 
instructions.

I
Did you want to see me, Mrs. Danvers?

MRS. DANVERS
Mr. de Winter informed me that his sister, Mrs. Lacy, and Major Lacy 
are expected for luncheon. I'd like to know if you approve of the menu.

I
Oh -- well -- well, I -- I'm sure it's very suitable -- very -- very 
nice, indeed.

MRS. DANVERS
You'll notice, Madam, that I've left a blank space for the sauce. Mrs. 
de Winter was most particular about sauces.

I
Ah -- let's have whatever you think that Mrs. de Winter would've 
ordered.

MRS. DANVERS
Thank you, Madam. When you've finished your letters, Robert will take 
them to the post.

I
My let -- my letters? Oh, yes. Of course. Thank you, Mrs. Danvers.

BEATRICE
How are you, Frith?

FRITH
Good morning, Mrs. Lacy.

BEATRICE
Where's Mr. de Winter?

FRITH
I believe he went down to the farm with Mr. Crawley.

BEATRICE
How tiresome of him not to be here when we arrive, and how typical!

BEATRICE
I must say old Danvers keeps the house looking lovely. She certainly 
learned that trick of arranging flowers from Rebecca.

GILES
I wonder how she likes it now -- being ordered about by an ex-chorus 
girl.

BEATRICE
Now where on earth did you get the idea she's an ex-chorus girl?

GILES
He picked her up in the South of France, didn't he?

BEATRICE
What if he did?

GILES
Well -- I mean to say -- there you are.

I
How do you do? I -- I'm Maxim's wife.

BEATRICE
How do you do? Well, I must say you're quite different from what I 
expected.

GILES
Don't be so silly. She's exactly what I told you she'd be. Well -- how 
d'you like Manderley?

I
Very beautiful, isn't it?

BEATRICE
And how do you get along with Mrs. Danvers?

I
Well, I -- I've never met anyone quite like her before.

GILES
You mean she scares you? She's not exactly an oil painting, is she?

BEATRICE
Giles, you're very much in the way here. Go somewhere else.

GILES
Well, I'll try and find Maxim, shall I?

BEATRICE
Giles.

I
I -- I didn't mean to say anything against Mrs. Danvers. It... 

BEATRICE
Oh, there's no need for you to be frightened about her. But I shouldn't 
have any more to do with her than you can help. Shall we sit down?

I
Oh, yes -- yes, please.

BEATRICE
You see, she's bound to be insanely jealous at first and she must 
resent you bitterly.

I
But why should she?

BEATRICE
Don't you know? I should've thought Maxim would have told you. She 
simply adored Rebecca.

BEATRICE
How are you, Robert?

ROBERT
Quite well, thank you, Madam.

BEATRICE
Still having trouble with your teeth?

ROBERT
Unfortunately yes, Madam.

BEATRICE
You must have them out -- all of them! Wretched nuisances, teeth.

ROBERT
Thank you, Madam.

BEATRICE
Oh, a plateful!

GILES
Do you hunt?

I
No, I don't. I -- I'm afraid I don't even ride.

GILES
Oh, have to ride down here. We all do. Which do you ride -- side saddle 
or astride? Oh, yes, of course, I forgot you don't, do you? You must. 
Nothing else to do down here.

BEATRICE
Maxim, when're you going to have parties here again like the old days?

MAXIM
Oh, I haven't thought about it.

BEATRICE
But everyone's dying to see you and... 

MAXIM
Yes, I bet they are.

BEATRICE
Why don't you have the masquerade ball again this summer?

MAXIM
Er... 

BEATRICE
My dear, are you fond of dancing?

I
Oh, I love it, but I'm not very good at it.

GILES
Do you rhumba?

I
I've never tried.

GILES
You must teach me. I say, old boy, I'm trying to find out exactly what 
your wife does do.

MAXIM
Ah... she sketches a little.

GILES
Sketches! Not this modern stuff, I hope. You know -- portrait of a lamp 
shade upside down to represent a soul in torment. You don't sail, do 
you?

I
No -- I don't.

GILES
Um hum, thank goodness for that! Huh?

BEATRICE
You're very much in love with Maxim, aren't you? Yes, I've seen you 
are. Don't mind my saying so, but why don't you do something about your 
hair? Why don't you have it cut or sweep it back behind your ears?

BEATRICE
Oh, no, that's worse. What does Maxim say about it? Does he like it 
like that?

I
Well, he never mentions it.

BEATRICE
Oh, well, don't go by me. I can see by the way you dress you don't care 
a hoot how you look. But I wonder Maxim hasn't been at you. He's so 
particular about clothes.

I
I don't think he ever notices what I wear.

BEATRICE
Oh, well -- he must have changed a lot then. You mustn't worry about 
old Maxim and his moods. One never knows what goes on in that quiet 
mind of his. Often he gets into a terrible rage, and when he does -- 
(whistles)... huh, but I don't suppose he'll lose his temper with you. 
You seem such a placid little thing.

GILES
Come along, old girl. We've got to be on the first tee at three 
o'clock.

BEATRICE
All right. I'm coming.

GILES
Well, goodbye, Maxim, old boy.

BEATRICE
Goodbye, my dear. Forgive me for asking so many rude questions. We both 
really hope you'll be very happy.

I
Oh, thank you, Beatrice, thank you very much!

BEATRICE
And I must congratulate you upon the way Maxim looks. We were very 
worried about him this time last year. But then, of course, you know 
the whole story.

MAXIM
Goodbye, Beatrice.

BEATRICE
Goodbye, old boy.

MAXIM
Well, thank heavens, they've gone! Now we can have a walk about that 
place. Looks as though we might have a shower, but you won't mind that, 
will you?

I
No, but wait a minute. I'll run upstairs and get a coat.

MAXIM
There's a heap of mackintoshes in the flower room. Robert! Robert, run 
and get a coat from the flower room for Mrs. de Winter, will you? What 
did you think of Beatrice?

I
Oh, I liked her very much. But she kept saying that I was quite 
different from what she expected.

MAXIM
Well, what the devil did she expect?

I
Oh, someone -- smarter and more sophisticated, I'm afraid. Er... d'you 
like my hair?

MAXIM
Your hair? Yes, of course, I do. What's the matter with it?

I
Oh, I don't know. I just wondered.

MAXIM
How funny you are.

MAXIM
Thank you.

I
Do I have to put it on?

MAXIM
Yes, certainly, certainly, certainly. Can't be too careful with 
children. Come on, Jasper! Come on and take some of that fat off!

MAXIM
Jasper! Here, not that way! Come here! (whistles)

I
Where does that lead to?

MAXIM
Oh, it leads to a little cove where we used to keep a boat.

I
Oh, let's go down there.

MAXIM
Oh, no, it's a perfectly dull and uninteresting stretch of sand -- just 
like any other.

I
Oh, please.

MAXIM
Well, all right -- we'll -- walk down and take a look if you really 
want to.

I
That's Jasper. There must be something wrong. Perhaps he's hurt 
himself.

MAXIM
No, he's all right. Leave him alone.

I
Don't you think I'd better go and see?

MAXIM
Don't bother about him, I tell you! He can't come to any harm! He'll 
find his own way back!

I
Jasper! Jasper! Oh, there you are. What do you want in there, Jasper? 
Come on -- come on home -- let's go home. Jasper! Jasper!

I
Oh. I didn't know that there was anybody.

BEN
I know that dog. He comes fr'the house. He ain't your own.

I
No, he's -- he's Mr. de Winter's dog. Have you anything I could -- I 
could tie him with?

I
Come here, Jasper.

BEN
You won't tell anyone you saw me in there, will ye?

I
Don't you belong on the estate?

BEN
I warn't doin' nothin'. I was just puttin' my shells away. She is gone 
in the sea, ain't she? She'll never come back no more.

I
No, she'll never come back. Come on. Jasper.

I
Maxim! What's the matter? Maxim! I'm sorry I was such a time, but I had 
to get a rope for Jasper.

MAXIM
Hurry up, Jasper, for heaven's sake!

I
Please wait for me! Maxim, what is it? You look so angry!

MAXIM
You know I didn't want you to go there, but you deliberately went.

I
Why not? There was only a cottage down there, and a strange man who 
was... 

MAXIM
You didn't go into the cottage, did you?

I
Yes. The door... 

MAXIM
Well, don't go there again! Do you hear?

I
Well, why not?

MAXIM
Because I hate the place. And if you had my memories, you wouldn't go 
there or talk about it or even think about it!

I
What's the matter? Oh, I'm sorry. Please!

MAXIM
We should have stayed away. We should never have come back to 
Manderley. Oh, what a fool I was!

I
I've made you unhappy. Somehow I've hurt you. Oh, I can't bear to see 
you like this. Because I love you so much.

MAXIM
Do you? Do you? Ah, I've made you cry. Forgive me. I sometimes seem to 
fly off the handle for no reason at all -- don't I? Come. We'll go home 
and have some tea and forget all about it.

I
Yes, let's forget all about it.

MAXIM
Here, let me have Jasper.

FRANK
Hello! Come in!

I
Oh, please don't get up, Mr. Crawley. I -- I was just wondering if you 
meant what you said the other day about -- er -- showing me the run of 
things.

FRANK
Of course, I did.

I
What are you doing now?

FRANK
Notifying all the tenants that in celebration of Maxim's return -- with 
his bride -- this week's rent will be free.

I
Oh, is that Maxim's idea?

FRANK
Oh, yes. All the servants get an extra week's wages, too.

I
Oh, he didn't tell me. (laughs) Oh, can't I help you? I -- I could at 
least lick the stamps.

FRANK
That's terribly nice of you. But, won't you sit down?

I
Oh, yes. Thank you. I -- I was down at the cottage on the beach the 
other day. There was a man there -- a queer sort of person. Jasper kept 
barking at him.

FRANK
Oh, yes -- must have been Ben. Excuse me. He's quite harmless. We give 
him odd jobs now and then.

I
That cottage place seems to be going to rack and ruin. Why isn't 
something done about it?

FRANK
Oh, I think if Maxim wanted anything done about it, he'd tell me.

I
Are those all Rebecca's things down there?

FRANK
Yes. Yes, they are.

I
What did she use the cottage for?

FRANK
The boat used to be moored near there.

I
What boat? What happened to it? Was that the boat she was sailing in 
when she was drowned?

FRANK
Yes. Capsized and sank. She was washed overboard.

I
Wasn't she afraid to go out like that alone?

FRANK
She wasn't afraid of anything.

I
Where did they find her?

FRANK
Near Edgecombe -- about forty miles up channel about two months 
afterwards. Maxim went up to identify her. It was horrible for him.

I
Yes, it must have been. Mr. Crawley, please don't think me morbidly 
curious. It isn't that, it's just that I feel at such a disadvantage. 
All the time whenever I meet anyone -- Maxim's sister, or even the 
servants -- I know they're all thinking the same thing. They're all 
comparing me with her -- with Rebecca.

FRANK
Oh, you mustn't think that. I can't tell you how glad I am that you 
married Maxim. It's going to make all the difference to his life. And, 
from my point of view, it -- it's very refreshing to find someone like 
yourself who is not entirely -- in tune, shall we say, with Manderley.

I
That's very sweet of you. I daresay I -- I've been stupid, but everyday 
I realize the things that she had and that I lack -- beauty, and wit, 
and intelligence, and all the things that are so important in a woman.

FRANK
You have qualities that are just as important -- more important, if I 
may say so. Kindliness, and sincerity, and if you'll forgive me, 
modesty -- mean more to a husband than all the wit and beauty in the 
world. We none of us want to live in the past. Maxim least of all. It's 
up to you, you know, to lead us away from it.

I
Well, I promise you I won't bring this up again, but before we end this 
conversation, would you answer just one more question?

FRANK
If it's something I'm able to answer, I'll -- in my best.

I
Tell me, what was Rebecca really like?

FRANK
I suppose -- I suppose she was the most beautiful creature I ever saw.

I
Good evening, Maxim.

MAXIM
Hello. The films of the honeymoon have arrived at last. Do we have 
time, do you think, before dinner? What on earth have you done to 
yourself?

I
Oh, nothing. I -- I just ordered a new dress from London. I hope you 
don't mind.

MAXIM
Oh, no, no. Only -- do you think that sort of thing is right for you? 
It doesn't seem your type at all.

I
I thought you'd like it.

MAXIM
And what have you done to your hair? (laughs) Oh, I see. Oh, dear -- 
oh, dear -- oh, dear -- I'm sorry. (laughs) You look lovely -- lovely. 
That's very nice -- for a change. Shall we see these pictures?

I
Yes. I --I'd love to see them.

MAXIM
Ah, look now. Ah, look at that.

I
Wasn't it wonderful, darling. Can't we go back there someday?

MAXIM
(laughs) Yes, of course -- of course. Ah, look at you. There, won't our 
grandchildren be delighted when they see how lovely you were?

I
Oh, look at you.

MAXIM
Eh -- (laughs) -- oh, this... Oh, I... 

I
Oh, I like that. (laughs) Look at that.

MAXIM
(laughs) Yes, very nice.

I
Oh, remember that?

MAXIM
Yes.

I
Oh, I wish our honeymoon could have lasted forever, Maxim.

MAXIM
Oh, dash it, look. Oh -- oh -- oh -- hang it. Threaded it up wrong as 
usual, or something.

MAXIM
Yes, Frith. What is it?

FRITH
Excuse me, sir. May I have a word with you?

MAXIM
Yes. Come in.

FRITH
It's about Robert, sir. There's been a slight unpleasantness between 
him and Mrs. Danvers.

MAXIM
Oh, dear.

FRITH
Robert is very upset.

MAXIM
Oh, this is trouble. What is it?

FRITH
It appears that Mrs. Danvers has accused Robert of stealing a valuable 
ornament from the morning room. Robert denies the accusation most 
emphatically, sir.

MAXIM
What was the thing, anyway?

FRITH
China cupid, sir.

MAXIM
Oh, dear, that's one of our treasures, isn't it? Well, tell Mrs. 
Danvers to get to the bottom of it somehow and tell her I'm sure it 
wasn't Robert.

FRITH
Very good, sir.

MAXIM
Why do they come to me with these things? That's your job, sweetheart.

I
Maxim, I -- I wanted to tell you, but -- er -- well, I forgot. Fact is 
-- I broke the china cupid.

MAXIM
You broke it! Now why on earth didn't you say something about it when 
Frith was here?

I
I -- I don't know. I -- I didn't like to. I -- I was afraid he'd think 
me a fool.

MAXIM
Well, he'll think you're much more of a fool now. You'll have to 
explain to him and Mrs. Danvers.

I
Oh, no, Maxim. You do it. I'll -- I'll go upstairs.

MAXIM
Don't be such a little idiot, darling. Anybody would think you were 
afraid of them.

MAXIM
It's all a mistake, Mrs. Danvers. Apparently Mrs. de Winter broke the 
cupid herself and forgot to say anything about it.

I
I'm so sorry. I -- I never thought that I'd get Robert into trouble.

MRS. DANVERS
Is it possible to repair the ornament, Madam?

I
No, I'm afraid it isn't. It -- was smashed into pieces.

MAXIM
What did you do with the pieces?

I
Well, I -- I put them -- at the back of one of the drawers in the 
writing desk.

MAXIM
Ah, it looks as though Mrs. de Winter were afraid you were going to put 
her in prison, doesn't it, Mrs. Danvers? Well, never mind. Do what you 
can to find the pieces, see if they can be mended and above all, tell 
Rovert to dry his tears.

MRS. DANVERS
I shall apologize to Robert, of course. Perhaps if such a thing happens 
again, Mrs. de Winter will tell me personally and I... 

MAXIM
Yes, yes. All right. Thank you, Mrs. Danvers.

MAXIM
Well, I suppose that clip will hold all right, I don't know.

I
I'm awfully sorry, darling. It was very careless of me. Mrs. Danvers 
must be furious with me.

MAXIM
Oh, hang Mrs. Danvers. Why on earth should you be frightened of her? 
You behave more like a... upstairs maid or something, not like the 
mistress of the house at all.

I
Yes, I know I do. But -- I feel so uncomfortable. I -- I try my best 
every day, but -- it's very difficult with people looking up and down 
as if I were a prize cow.

MAXIM
Well, what does it matter if they do? You must remember that life at 
Manderley is the only thing that interests anybody down here.

I
What a slap in the eye I must have been to them, then. I suppose that's 
why you married me. Because you know I was dull and gauche and 
inexperienced, and -- there could never be any gossip about me.

MAXIM
Gossip? What do you mean?

I
I -- I don't know. I -- I just said it for something to say. Don't look 
at me like that. Maxim, what's the matter? What have I said?

MAXIM
It wasn't a very attractive thing to say, was it?

I
No. It was rude -- hateful.

MAXIM
I wonder if I did a very selfish thing in marring you.

I
How do you mean?

MAXIM
I'm not much of a companion to you, am I? You don't get much fun, do 
you? You ought to have married a boy, someone of your own age.

I
Maxim, why do you say this? Of course we're companions.

MAXIM
Are we? I don't know. I'm very difficult to live with.

I
No, you're not difficult. You're easy, very easy. Our marriage is a 
success, isn't it? A great success. We're happy, aren't we? Terribly 
happy? If you don't think we are happy, it would be much better if you 
didn't pretend. I'll go away. Why don't you answer me?

MAXIM
How can I answer you, when I don't know the answer myself? If you say 
we're happy, let's leave it at that. Happiness is something I know 
nothing about.

MAXIM
Oh, look. There's the one when I left the camera running on the tripod, 
remember?

HILDA
Pardon me, Madam. Is there anything I can do for you?

I
I'm all right, Hilda. Thank you very much.

HILDA
I'll bring the sandwiches immediately, Madam.

I
Hilda!

HILDA
Yes, Madam?

I
The West Wing. Nobody ever uses it any more, do they?

HILDA
No, Madam, not since the death of Mrs. de Winter.

MRS. DANVERS
Come along, Mr. Jack, or someone may see you.

FAVEL
Well, Danny, old harpy, it's been good to see you again. It should be 
breathless to pick up all the news.

MRS. DANVERS
I really don't think it's wise for you to come here, Mr. Jack.

I
Jasper, come here!

FAVEL
Oh, nonsense, nonsence. It's just like coming back home.

MRS. DANVERS
Quiet, Mr. Jack.

FAVEL
Yes. We must be careful not to shock Cinderella, mustn't we?

MRS. DANVERS
She's in the morning room. If you leave through the garden door, she 
won't see you.

FAVEL
I must say I feel a little like the poor relation, sneaking around 
through back doors. Well, toodle-oo, Danny.

MRS. DANVERS
Goodbye, Mr. Jack, and please be careful.

I
Jasper, quiet, quiet!

FAVEL
Looking for me? Oh, I didn't make you jump, did I?

I
No, of course not. I didn't quite know who it was.

FAVEL
Yes. You're pleased to see me, aren't you, old boy? I'm glad there's 
someone in the family to welcome me back to Manderley. And how is dear 
old Max?

I
Very well, thank you.

FAVEL
I hear he went up to London -- left his little bride all alone. That's 
too bad. Isn't he rather afraid that somebody might come down and carry 
you off?

FAVELL
Danny, all your precautions were in vain. The mistress of the house was 
hiding behind the door. Oh -- hhh -- what about presenting me -- to the 
bride?

MRS. DANVERS
This is Mr. Favel, Madam.

I
How do you do?

FAVEL
How do you do?

I
Well, won't you have some tea, or something?

FAVEL
Oh, now, isn't that a charming invitation? I've been asked to stay to 
tea, Danny, and I've a good mind to accept. Oh, well, perhaps you're 
right. Pity, just when we were getting on so nicely. We mustn't lead 
the young bride astray, must we, Jasper? Goodbye, it's been fun meeting 
you. Oh, by the way, er -- it would be very decent of you if you didn't 
mention this little visit to your revered husband. He -- er -- doesn't 
exactly approve of me.

I
Very well.

FAVEL
That's very sporting of you. I wish I had a young bride of three months 
waiting for me at home. I'm just a lonely old bachelor. Fare thee well. 
Oh, and -- er -- I know what was wrong with that introduction. Danny 
didn't tell you, did she? I'm Rebecca's favorite cousin. Toodle-oo!

MRS. DANVERS
Do you wish anytihg, Madam?

I
I didn't expect to see you, Mrs. Danvers. I -- I noticed that a window 
wasn't closed, and I came up to see if I could fasten it.

MRS. DANVERS
Why did you say that? I closed it before I left the room. You opened it 
yourself, didn't you? You've always wanted to see this room, haven't 
you, Madam? Why did you never ask me to show it to you? I was ready to 
show it to you every day. It's a lovely room, isn't it? Loveliest room 
you've ever seen. Everything is kept just as Mrs. de Winter liked it. 
Nothing has been altered since that last night. Come. I'll show you her 
dressing room.

MRS. DANVERS
This is where I keep all her clothes. You would like to see them, 
wouldn't you?

MRS. DANVERS
Feel this. It was a Christmas present from Mr. de Winter. He was always 
giving her expensive gifts, the whole year round. I keep her underwear 
on this side.

MRS. DANVERS
They were made specially for her by the nuns in the Convent of St. 
Claire. I always used to wait up for her, no matter how late. Sometimes 
she and Mr. de Winter didn't come home until dawn. While she was 
undressing, she'd tell me about the party she'd been to. She knew 
everyone that mattered, everyone loved her! When she'd finished her 
bath, she'd go into the bedroom, and go over to the dressing table.

MRS. DANVERS
Oh, you've moved her brush, haven't you? There, that's better, just as 
she always laid it down. 'Come on, Danny, hair drill,' she would say. 
And I'd stand behind her like this and brush away for twenty minutes at 
a time. Then she would say, 'Good night, Danny,' and step into her bed.

MRS. DANVERS
I embroidered this case for her myself, and I keep it here always.

MRS. DANVERS
Did you ever see anything so delicate? Look, you can see my hand.

MRS. DANVERS
You wouldn't think she'd been gone so long, would you. Sometimes when I 
walk along the corridor, I fancy I hear her just behind me -- that 
quick, light step. I couldn't mistake it anywhere. Not only this room -
- it's all the rooms in the house. I almost hear it now. Do you think 
the dead come back and watch the living?

I
No -- no! I don't believe it!

MRS. DANVERS
Sometimes, I wonder if she doesn't come back here to Manderley, watch 
you and Mr. de Winter together. You look tired. Why don't you stay here 
a while and rest. Listen to the sea. So soothing... listen to it... 
listen... listen to the sea.

I
Tell Mrs. Danvers I wish to see her immediately.

MRS. DANVERS
You sent for me, Madam?

I
Yes, Mrs. Danvers. I want you to get rid of all these things.

MRS. DANVERS
These are Mrs. de Winter's things.

I
I am Mrs. de Winter now.

MRS. DANVERS
Very well. I will give the instructions.

I
Just a moment, please. Mrs. Danvers, I intend to say nothing to Mr. de 
Winter about Mr. Favell's visit. In fact, I prefer to forget everything 
that happened this afternoon.

I
Maxim, Maxim. You've been gone all day.

MAXIM
(laughs) Chocking.

I
Oh. 

MAXIM
(laughs) Well, well, well. What have you been doing with yourself?

I
Oh, I've been thinking.

MAXIM
Oh, what did you want to do that for?

I
Well, come in here and I'll tell you. Darling, could we have a costume 
ball just as you used to?

MAXIM
Now what put that idea into your mind? Has Beatrice been at you?

I
No, no, but -- I feel that we ought to do something to -- to make 
people feel that Manderley is just the same as it always was. Oh, 
please, darling. Could we?

MAXIM
You don't know what it would mean, you know. You would have to be 
hostress to hundreds of people -- all the County. And a lot of young 
people would come up from London and turn the house into a night club.

I
Oh, yes, but I want to, oh, please! I've never been to a large party, 
but I could learn what to do. And I promise you, you wouldn't be 
ashamed of me.

MAXIM
All right, if you think you'd enjoy it. You'd better get Mrs. Danvers 
to help you, hadn't you?

I
No, no. I don't need Mrs. Danvers to help me. I can do it myself.

MAXIM
All right, my sweet.

I
Oh -- oh, thank you, darling. Thank you. Oh, well -- what'll you go as?

MAXIM
Oh, I never dress up. That's the one privilege I claim as the host. 
What will you be? Alice in Wonderland with that ribbon in your hair?

I
No, I won't tell you. I'll design a costume all by myself and give you 
the surprise of your life!

I
Come in!

MRS. DANVERS
Robert found these sketches in the library, Madam. Did you intend 
throwing them away?

I
Yes, Mrs. Danvers, I did. They were just my idea I was sketching for my 
costume for the Ball.

MRS. DANVERS
Hasn't Mr. de Winter suggested anything?

I
No, I want to surprise him. I don't want him to know anything about it.

MRS. DANVERS
I merely thought that -- you might find a costume among the family 
portraits that would suit you.

I
Oh, you mean those at the top of the stairs? I'll go and look at them.

MRS. DANVERS
This one, for instance. It might have been designed for you. I'm sure 
you could have it copied. I've heard Mr. de Winter say that this is his 
favorite of all the paintings. It's Lady Caroline de Winter, one of his 
ancestors.

I
Oh, well -- well, well that's a splendid idea, Mrs. Danvers. I -- I'm 
very grateful.

FRANK
Everything under control, Frith?

FRIRTH
Yes, sir. Thank you. Excuse me, sir -- are you supposed to be a -- 
school-master?

FRANK
Oh, no. This is just my old cap and gown.

FRITH
Certainly makes a very nice costume, sir. And -- economical, too.

FRANK
Yes. That was the idea.

GILES
'Evening, Robert! Not very good weather for the Ball?

ROBERT
No, sir.

GILES
Very misty on the way. Very chilly.

BEATRICE
Oh, this wig's so tight, they ought to have sent an asperin with this.

MAXIM
Huh, hello.

BEATRICE
Oh!

MAXIM
What's the idea? Adam and Eve?

BEATRICE
Oh, Maxim, don't be disgusting.

GILES
Strong man, old man. Where's my weight thing?

MAXIM
What thing?

BEATRICE
You haven't left it in the car, have you?

GILES
Oh. No, there it is.

BEATRICE
You the first one down? Where's the child?

MAXIM
Well, she's keeping her costume a great secret. Wouldn't even let me 
into her room.

BEATRICE
Oh, lovely. I'll go up and give her a hand.

GILES
Huh, I could do with a drink, huh?

MAXIM
Won't you catch cold in that thing?

GILES
Don't be silly. Pure wool, old boy.

ROBERT
Pardon me, sir. You forgot this.

GILES
Oh, thank you.

BEATRICE
Here I am, dear. It's Bee. I've come to give you a hand.

I
Oh, please don't come in, Beatrice. I don't want anyone to see my 
costume.

BEATRICE
Oh! Oh, you won't be long, will you? Because the first people will be 
arriving any moment.

I
Now, you're sure that's where that should be?

CLARICE
Yes, Madam. It's just right.

I
Oh, isn't it exciting!

CLARICE
Indeed it is, Madam. I've always heard of the Manderley Ball. Now I'm 
really going to see one. Sure there'll be no one there to touch you, 
Madam.

I
Do you really think so? Now -- now where's my fan? Now, you're sure I 
look all right?

CLARICE
You look ever so beautiful.

I
Well -- here goes!

I
Good evening. Mr. de Winter.

MAXIM
What the devil do you think you're doing?

BEATRICE
Rebecca! Oh!

I
But, i -- i -- it's the picture -- the -- the one in the gallery. What 
is it? What have I done?

MAXIM
Go and take it off. Doesn't matter what you put on. Anything will do. 
What are you standing there for? Didn't you hear what I said?

ROBERT
Sir George and Lady Moore. Dudley Tennant. Admiral and Lady Burbank.

MRS. DANVERS
I watched you go down, just as I watched her a year ago. Even in the 
same dress you couldn't compare.

I
You knew it. You knew that she wore it, and yet you deliberately 
suggested I wear it! Why do you hate me? What have I done to you that 
you should hate me so?

MRS. DANVERS
You tried to take her place. You let him marry you. I've seen his face, 
his eyes. They're the same as those first weeks after she died. I used 
to listen to him -- walking up and down, up and down, all night long, 
night after night -- thinking of her, suffering torture because he'd 
lost her.

I
I don't want to know!

MRS. DANVERS
You thought you could be Mrs. de Winter -- live in her house, walk in 
her steps, take the things that were hers. But she's too strong for 
you. You can't fight her. No one ever got the better of her, never, 
never! She was beaten in the end, but it wasn't a man, it wasn't a 
woman -- it was the sea.

I
Stop it! Stop it -- Oh, stop it!

MRS. DANVERS
You're overwrought, Madam. I've opened a window for you. A little air 
will do you good.

MRS. DANVERS
Why don't you go? Why don't you leave Manderley? He doesn't need you. 
He's got his memories. He doesn't love you, he wants to be alone again 
with her. You 've nothing to stay for. You've nothing to live for, 
really, have you? Look down there. It's easy, isn't it? Why don't you? 
Why don't you? Go on... go on... don't be afraid.

CROWD
Ship wreck! Ship on the rocks! It's a ship aground, sending up rockets! 
Ship wreck! Come on, everybody -- down to the bay! Notify the coast 
guard! She's aground!

I
Maxim! Maxim!

CROWD
Ship's ashore! Come on! Come on, everybody! Come on! Come on!

I
Maxim! Maxim!

I
Oh! Ben, have you seen Mr. de Winter anywhere?

BEN
She won't come back, will she? You said so.

I
Who, Ben? Who do you mean?

BEN
Uh -- the other one.

I
Oh -- Frank, have you seen Maxim anywhere?

FRANK
Not since about half an hour ago. I thought he'd gone up to the house.

I
No, he hasn't been in the house at all, and I'm afraid something might 
have happened to him. Frank, what's the matter? Is anything wrong? 
There is something wrong.

FRANK
Well -- the diver who went down to inspect the bottom of the ship came 
across the hull of another boat -- a little sailboat.

I
Frank, is it... ?

FRANK
Yes, it's Rebecca's.

I
How did they recognize it?

FRANK
He's a local man -- knew it instantly.

I
It'll be so hard on poor Maxim.

FRANK
Yes, it's going to bring it all back again -- and worse than before.

I
Why did they have to find it? Why couldn't they have left it there in 
peace at the bottom of the sea?

FRANK
Well, I --'d better get along and arrange some breakfast for the men.

I
All right, Frank. I -- I'll go and look for Maxim.

MAXIM
Hello.

I
Maxim! You haven't had any sleep. Have you forgiven me?

MAXIM
Forgiven you? What have I got to forgive you for?

I
For last night -- my stupidity about the costume.

MAXIM
Oh, that. I'd forgotten. I was angry with you, wasn't I?

I
Huh... Maxim, can't we start all over again? I don't ask that you 
should love me. I won't ask impossible things. I'll be your friend, 
your companion. I -- I'll be happy with that.

MAXIM
You love me very much, don't you? But it's too late, my darling. We've 
lost our little chance of happiness.

I
No, Maxim, no.

MAXIM
Yes. It's all over now. The thing's happened. The thing I've dreaded 
day after day -- night after night.

I
Maxim, what're you trying to tell me?

MAXIM
Rebecca has won. Her shadow has been between us all the time, keeping 
us from one another. She knew that this would happen.

I
What are you saying?

MAXIM
They sent a diver down. He found another boat.

I
Yes, I know. Frank told me. Rebecca's boat. Oh, it's terrible for you. 
I'm so sorry.

MAXIM
The diver made another discovery. Broke one of the ports and looked 
into the cabin. There was a body in there.

I
She wasn't alone. There was someone sailing with her and you have to 
find out who it was. That's it, isn't it , Maxim?

MAXIM
You don't understand. There was no one with her. It's Rebecca's body 
lying there on the cabin floor.

I
No, no.

MAXIM
The woman that was washed up at Edgecombe -- the woman that is now 
buried in tha family crypt -- that was not Rebecca. That was the body 
of some unknown woman, unclaimed, belonging nowhere. I identified it, 
but I knew it wasn't Rebecca. It was all a lie. I knew where Rebecca's 
body was. Lying on that cabin floor, on the bottom of the sea.

I
How did you know, Maxim?

MAXIM
Because I put it there.

MAXIM
Would you look into my eyes and tell me that you love me now? You see? 
I was right. It's too late.

I
No, it's not too late. You're not to say that. I love you more than 
anything in the world. Oh, please, Maxim, kiss me, please.

MAXIM
No. It's no use. It's too late. 

I
We can't lose each other now. We must be together always. No secrets, 
no shadows... 

MAXIM
No. We may have a few days -- a few hours.

I
Maxim, why didn't you tell me before?

MAXIM
I nearly did sometimes, but you never seemed close enough.

I
How could we be close when I knew you were always thinking of Rebecca? 
How could I even ask you to love me when I knew you love Rebecca still?

MAXIM
What are you talking about? What do you mean?

I
Whenever you touched me, I -- I knew you were comparing me with 
Rebecca. Whenever you looked at me or spoke to me or walked with me in 
the garden, I knew you were thinking -- 'This, I did with Rebecca -- 
and this -- and this --.' Oh, it's true, isn't it?

MAXIM
You thought I loved Rebecca? You thought that? I hated her!

MAXIM
Oh, I was carried away by her, enchanged by her, as everyone was. And 
when I was married, I was told I was the luckiest man in the world.. 
She was so lovely -- so accomplished -- so amusing. 'She's got the 
three things that really matter in a wife,' everyone said -- 'breeding, 
brains, and beauty.' And I believed them -- completely. But I never had 
a moment's happiness with her. She was incapable of love, or 
tenderness, or decency.

I
You didn't love her? You didn't love her?

MAXIM
Do you remember that cliff where you first saw me in Monte Carlo? Well, 
I went there with Rebecca on our honeymoon. That was where I found out 
about her -- four days after we were married. She stood there laughing, 
her black hair blowing in the wind, and told me all about herself -- 
everything. Things I'll never tell a living soul. I wanted to kill her. 
It would have been so easy. Remember the precipice? I frightened you, 
didn't I? You thought I was mad. Perhaps I was. Perhaps I am mad. It 
wouldn't make for sanity, would it -- living with the devil? 'I'll make 
a bargain with you,' she said. 'You'd look rather foolish trying to 
divorce me now after four days of marriage, so I'll play the part of a 
devoted wife, mistress of your precious Manderley. I'll make it the 
most famous showplace in England, if you like. And people will visit us 
and envy us and say we're the luckiest, happiest couple in the country. 
What a grand joke it will be -- what a triumph!' I should never have 
accepted her dirty bargain, but I did

I
Of course I can, darling. Of course I can.

MAXIM
Well -- I kept the bargain, and so did she apparently. Oh, she played 
the game brilliantly. But after a while, she began to grow careless. 
She took a flat in London and she'd stay away for days at a time. Then 
she started to bring her friends down here. I warned her, but she 
shrugged her shoulders. 'What's it got to do with you?' she said. She 
even started on Frank -- poor, faithful Frank. Then there was a cousin 
of hers -- a man named Favell.

I
Yes, I know him. He came the day you went to London.

MAXIM
Why didn't you tell me?

I
I didn't like to. I -- I thought it would remind you of -- Rebecca.

MAXIM
Remind me! As if I needed reminding! Favell used to visit her here in 
this cottage. I found out about it and I warned her that if he came 
here again I'd shoot them both. One night when I found that she'd come 
back quietly from London, I thought that Favell was with her -- and I 
knew then that I couldn't stand this life of filth and deceit any 
longer. I decided to come down here and have it out with both of them. 
But she was alone. She was expecting Favell, but he hadn't come. She 
was lying on the divan, a large tray of cigarette stubs beside her. She 
looked ill -- queer. Suddenly she got up -- started to walk toward me. 
"When I have a child," she said, "neither you nor anyone else could 
ever prove it wasn't yours. You'd like to have an heir, wouldn't you, 
Max, for your precious Manderley?" And then she started to laugh. "How 
funny, how supremely, wonderfully funny! I'll be the perfect mother 
just as I've been the perfect wife. No one will ever know. It ought to 
give you the thrill of your life, Max, to watch 

I
But you didn't kill her. It was an accident!

MAXIM
Who would believe me? I lost my head. I just knew I had to do something 
-- anything. I carried her out to the boat. It was very dark. There was 
no moon. I put her in the cabin. When the boat seemed a safe distance 
from the shore, I took a spike and drove it again and again through the 
planking of the hull. I opened up the seacocks and the water began to 
come in fast. I climbed over into the dinghy and pulled away. I saw the 
boat heel over -- and sink. I pulled back into the cove. Huh, started 
raining.

I
Maxim, does anyone else know of this?

MAXIM
No, no one except you and me.

I
We must explain it. It's got to be the body of someone you've never 
seen before.

MAXIM
No, they're bound to know her -- her rings, bracelets she always wore. 
They'll identify her body. Then they'll remember the other woman -- the 
other woman buried in the crypt.

I
If they find out it was Rebecca, you must simply say that you made a 
mistake about the other body -- that the day you went to Edgecombe you 
were ill, you didn't know what you were doing. Rebecca's dead. She 
can't speak, she can't bear witness, she can't harm you anymore. We're 
the only two people in the world that know, Maxim, you and I.

MAXIM
I told you once that I'd done a very selfish thing in marrying you. You 
understand now what I meant. I've loved you, my darling. I shall always 
love you. But I've known all along -- that Rebecca -- would win in the 
end.

I
No, no! She hasn't won! No matter what happens now, she hasn't won!

MAXIM
Hell -- hel -- oh -- hel -- hello, Frank. Hello, Frank. Yes. Who? 
Colonel Julyan? Yes, tell him I -- I'll meet him there as soon as I 
possibly can. What? Well, say we could talk about that, When we're sure 
about the matter.

I
What's happened?

MAXIM
Colonel Julyan called. He's the Chief Constable of the County. He's 
been asked by the police to go to the mortuary. He wants to know if I 
could possibly have made a mistake -- about that other body.

MAXIM
Well -- Colonel Julyan, apparently I did make a mistake about that 
other body.

FRANK
The mistake was quite natural under the circumstances. Besides, you 
weren't well at the time.

MAXIM
That's nonsense! I was perfectly well.

COL. JULYAN
Well, don't let it worry you, Maxim. Nobody can blame you for making a 
mistake. Pity is you've got to go through the same thing all over 
again.

FRANK
What do you mean?

COL. JULYAN
Oh, there'll have to be another inquest, of course. Same formality and 
red tape.

FRANK
Oh.

COL. JULYAN
I wish you could be spared the publicity of it, but I'm afraid that's 
impossible.

MAXIM
Oh, yes. Publicity... 

COL. JULYAN
I suppose Mrs. de Winter went below for something and a squall hit the 
boat -- with nobody at the helm. I imagine that's about the sloution of 
it, don't you think, Crawley?

FRANK
Oh, yes. Probably the door jammed, and she couldn't get on deck again.

COL. JULYAN
Yeah. Tabb, boat builder, will undoubtedly come to some such 
conclusion.

FRANK
Why would -- what would he know about it?

COL. JULYAN
Well, he's examining the boat now. Purely as a matter of routine you 
know. I'll be at the inquest tomorrow, Maxim. Quite unofficially, you 
know. We must get together for a game of golf as soon as it's all over, 
eh?

MAXIM
Yes.

COL. JULYAN
Bye-bye.

FRITH
I have the evening papers, Madam. Would you care to see them?

I
Oh, no, thank you, Frith. And, I prefer that Mr. de Winter weren't 
troubled with them either.

FRITH
Oh, I understand, Madam. Permit me to say that we're all most 
distressed outside.

I
Oh, thank you, Frith.

FRITH
I'm afraid the news has been a great shock to Mrs. Danvers.

I
Yes, I -- I rather expected it would be.

FRITH
It seems there's to be a Coroner's Inquest, Madam?

I
Yes, Frith. It's -- it's purely a formality.

FRITH
Of course, Madam. I -I wanted to say that if any of us might be 
required to give evidence, I should be only too pleased to do anything 
that might help the family.

I
Oh, thank you, Frith. I -- I'm sure Mr. de Winter will be very happy to 
hear it. But -- I don't think anything will be necessary.

I
Maxim!

MAXIM
Hello, darling.

I
Oh, Maxim -- I'm -- I'm worried about what you'll do at the inquest 
tomorrow.

MAXIM
What do you mean?

I
You won't lose your temper, will you? Promise me that they -- they 
won't make you angry.

MAXIM
All right, darling. I promise.

I
No matter what he asks you -- you -- you won't lose your head.

MAXIM
Don't worry, dear.

I
They can't do anything at once, can they?

MAXIM
No.

I
Then we've a little time left to be together?

MAXIM
Yes.

I
I want to go to the inquest with you.

MAXIM
I'd rather you didn't, darling.

I
But I can't wait here alone. I promise you I -- I won't be any -- any 
trouble to you, and -- I must be near you so that no matter what 
happens we -- we won' -- we won't be separated for a moment.

MAXIM
All right, dear. I don't mind this whole thing, except for you. I can't 
forget what it's done to you. I've been thinking of nothing else since 
it happened. Ah, it's gone forever -- that funny, young, lost look I 
loved. It won't ever come back. I killed that when I told you about 
Rebecca. It's gone. In a few hours -- you've grown so much older.

I
Oh, Maxim, Maxim... 

POLICEMAN
Black Jack Brady was his name -- the most important arrest I ever made. 
It must have been about two years ago, now. Of course, there was no 
doubt about it. He was hung a month after I caught him. Hello, wait a 
minute.

POLICEMAN
They've got old Balmy Ben up now.

CORONER
You remember the late Mrs. de Winter, don't you?

BEN
She's gone.

CORONER
Yes, we know that.

BEN
She went in the sea. The sea got her.

CORONER
That's right. That's right. Now -- we want you to tell us whether you 
were on the shore that last night she went sailing.

BEN
Eh?

CORONER
Were you on the shore that last night she went out, when she didn't 
come back?

BEN
I didn't see nothin'! I don't want to go to the asylum. Them cruel 
folks there.

CORONER
Now, nobody's going to send you to the asylum. All we want you to do is 
to tell us what you saw.

BEN
I didn't see nothin'.

CORONER
Come, come, did you see Mrs. de Winter get into her boat that last 
night?

BEN
I don't know nothin'. I don't want to go to the asylum.

CORONER
Very well, you may go.

BEN
Eh?

CORONER
You may go now.

CORONER
Mr. Tabb.

TABB
Yes, sir.

CORONER
Would you step forward, please?

TABB
I do.

CORONER
The late Mrs. de Winter used to send her boat to your shipyard for 
reconditioning.

TABB
That's right, sir.

CORONER
Can you remember any occasion when she had any sort of accident with 
the boat?

TABB
No, sir. I often said Mrs. de Winter was a born sailor.

CORONER
Now, when Mrs. de Winter went below, as is supposed, and a sudden guest 
of wind came down, that would be enough to capsize the boat, wouldn't 
it?

TABB
Excuse me, sir. But there's a little more to it than that.

CORONER
What do you mean, Mr. Tabb?

TABB
I mean, sir, the seacocks.

CORONER
What are the seacocks?

TABB
Seaco -- oh. Oh, the seacocks are the valves to drain out the boat. And 
they're always kept tight closed when you're afloat.

CORONER
Yes?

TABB
Well, yesterday, when I examined that boat, I found they'd been opened.

CORONER
Well, what could have been the reason for that?

TABB
Just this. That's what flooded the boat and sunk her.

CORONER
Are you implying... 

TABB
That boat never capsized at all. I know it's a terrible thing to say, 
sir, but in my opinion she was scuttled. And there's them 'oles.

CORONER
What holes?

TABB
In'er planking.

CORONER
What are you talking about?

TABB
Of course that boat's been under water for over a year, and tide's been 
knocking her against the ridge. But it seemd to me them 'oles looked as 
if she'd made them from the inside.

CORONER
Then you believe she must have done it deliberately?

TABB
Couldn't have been no accident. Not with her knowledge of boats.

CORONER
You know the former Mrs. de Winter very well, I believe?

COL. JULYAN
Oh, yes.

CORONER
Would you have believed her capable of suicide?

COL. JULYAN
No. Frankly, I would not. You never can tell.

CORONER
You may stand down, Mr. Tabb. Mr. de Winter, please.

CORONER
I'm sorry to drag you back for further questioning, Mr. de Winter, but 
you've heard the statement of Mr. Tabb. I wonder if you can help us in 
any way?

MAXIM
I'm afraid not.

CORONER
Can you think of any reason why there should be holes in the planking 
of the late Mrs. de Winter's boat?

MAXIM
Well, of course, I can't think of any reason.

CORONER
Has anyone ever discussed these holes with you before?

MAXIM
Well, since the boat has been at the bottom of the ocean, I scarcely 
think that likely.

CORONER
Mr. de Winter, I want you to believe we all feel very deeply for you in 
this matter, but you must remember that I don't conduct this inquiry 
for my own amusement.

MAXIM
That's rather obvious, isn't it?

CORONER
I hope that it is. Then, since Mrs. de Winter went sailing alone, are 
we to believe that she drove those holes herself?

MAXIM
You are to believe what you like.

CORONER
Can you enlighten us as to why Mrs. de Winter should have wanted to end 
her own life?

MAXIM
I know of no reason whatever.

CORONER
Mr. de Winter, however painful it may be, I have to ask you a very 
personal question. Were relations between you and the late Mrs. de 
Winter perfectly happy? Were relations between you and the late Mrs. de 
Winter perfectly happy?

MAXIM
I won't stand this any longer! And you might as well know now... 

CORONER
We'll return after lunch. Mr. de Winter, I presume you will be 
available for us then?

MAXIM
I told you you should have had some breakfast. You're hungry -- that's 
what's the matter with you.

MULLEN
Mr. Frith thought you might like to have some lunch from the house, and 
sent me with it.

MAXIM
Oh, that's fine, Mullen. Can you pull around the corner?

MULLEN
Very good.

I
Awfully foolish of me fainting like that.

MAXIM
Nonsense. If you hadn't fainted like that, I'd have really lost my 
temper.

I
Darling, please be careful.

MAXIM
Darling, wait here a few moments. I'll see if I can find old Frank.

I
Of course, darling. Don't worry about me. I'll be all right.

MAXIM
Sure? Here. Have a spot of this. Do you good.

I
Thank you.

MAXIM
Are you all right?

I
Yes, of course.

MAXIM
I won't be long.

I
Right you are.

FAVELL
Hello. And how does the bride find herself today? I say, marriage with 
Max is not exactly a bed of roses, is it?

I
I think you'd better go before Maxim gets back.

FAVELL
Oh, jealous, is he? Well, I can't say I blame him. But you don't think 
I'm the big bad wolf, do you? I'm not, you know. I'm a perfectly 
ordinary, harmless bloke. And I think you're behaving splendedly over 
all this. Perfectly splendedly. You know, you've grown up a bit since I 
last saw you. It's no wonder... 

MAXIM
What do you want, Favell?

FAVELL
Oh, hello, Max. Things are going pretty well for you, aren't they? 
Better than you ever expected. I was rather worried about you at first. 
That's why I came down to the inquest.

MAXIM
Well, I'm touched by your solicitude, but if you don't mind, we'd 
rather like to have our lunch.

FAVELL
Lunch! I say, what a jolly idea! Rather like a picnic, isn't it?

FAVELL
Oh, I'm so sorry. Do you mind if I put this there. You know, Max, old 
boy, I really think I ought to talk things over with you.

MAXIM
Talk what things over?

FAVELL
Well, those holes in the planking for one thing -- those holes that 
were drilled from the inside. Oh, Mullen!

MULLEN
Yes, sir?

FAVELL
Would you, like a good fellow, have my car filled with petrol? It's 
almost empty.

MULLEN
Very good, sir.

FAVELL
And, Mullen, close the door, will you?

MULLEN
Yes, sir.

FAVELL
Does this bother you? You know, old boy, I have a strong feeling that 
before the day is out, somebody's going to make use of that -- er -- 
rather expressive, though somewhat old-fashoned term, "foul play." Am -
- am I boring you with all this? No? Good! Well, you see, Max, I find 
myself in a rather awkward position. You've only got to read this note 
to understand. It's from Rebecca. And, what's more, she had the 
foresight to put the date on it. She wrote it to me the day she died. 
Incidentally, I was out on a party that night. So I didn't get it until 
the next day.

MAXIM
What makes you think that note would interest me?

FAVELL
Oh, I'm not to bother you with the contents now, but I can assure you 
that it is not the note of a woman who intends to drown herself that 
same night. By the way, what do you do with old bones? Bury them, eh 
what? However, for the time being -- you know, Max, I'm getting awfully 
fed up with my job as a motor-car salesman. I don't know if you've ever 
experienced the feeling of driving an expensive motor-car that isn't 
your own. But it can be very, very exasperating. You know what I mean. 
You want to own the car yourself. I've often wondered what it would be 
like to -- retire to the country, have a nice little place with a few 
acres of shooting. I never figured out what it would cost a year, but 
I'd like to talk about it with you. I'd like to have your advice on how 
to live comfortably without hard work.

FRANK
Hello, Favell. You looking for me, Maxim?

MAXIM
Yes. Mr. Favell and I have a little business transaction on hand. I 
think we had better conduct it over at the Inn. They may have a private 
room there.

FAVELL
Oh, see you later.

MAXIM
Find Colonel Julyan. Tell him I want to see him immediately. Come on, 
Favell. Let's go.

MAXIM
Ah -- have you a private room, please?

PROPRIETOR
Of course, sir. Through there, sir.

MAXIM
Oh, thank you.

PROPRIETOR
Hope this will do, Mr. de Winter.

FAVELL
It's splendid -- splendid -- exactly like the Ritz.

PROPRIETOR
(laughs) Any orders, gents?

FAVELL
Yes, you might bring me a large brandy and soda. How about you, Max? 
Have one on me. I feel I can afford to play host.

MAXIM
Oh, thanks. I don't mind if I do.

FAVELL
Make it two, will you, like a good fellow?

PROPRIETOR
Very good, sir.

COL. JULYAN
Where's Mr. de Winter?

PROPRIETOR
Oh, through the other door, sir.

MAXIM
Colonel Julyan. This is Mr. Favell.

FAVELL
Oh, I know Colonel Julyan. We're old friends, aren't we?

MAXIM
Since you're old friends, I assume you also know that he's head of the 
police here. I think he might be interested to hear your proposition. 
Go on, tell him all about it.

FAVELL
I don't know what you mean. I merely said I hoped to give up selling 
cars and retire into the country.

MAXIM
Actually he offered to withhold a vital piece of evidence from the 
inquest if I made it worth his while.

FAVELL
I only want to see justice done, Colonel. Now that boat builder's 
evidence suggested certain possible theories concerning Rebecca's 
death. One of them, of course, is suicide. Now, I have a little note 
here which I consider puts that possibility quite out of court. Read 
it, Colonel.

COL.JULYAN
Jack, darling. I've just seen the doctor and I'm going down to 
Manderley right away. I shall be at the cottage all this evening, and 
shall leave the door open for you. I've something terribly important to 
tell you. Rebecca.

FAVELL
Now, does that look like the note from a woman who had made up her mind 
to kill herself? And, apart from that, Colonel, do you mean to tell me 
that if you wanted to commit suicide, you'd go to all the trouble of 
putting out to sea in a boat, and then take a hammer and chisel and 
laboriously knock holes through the bottom of it? Come, colonel -- as 
an officer of the law, don't you feel that there are some slight 
grounds for suspicion?

COL.JULYAN
Of murder?

FAVELL
What else? You've known Max a long time, so you'll know he's the old-
fashioned type who'd die to defend his honor or who'd kill for it.

FRANK
It's blackmail -- pure and simple!

COL. JULYAN
Blackmail's not so pure nor so simple. It can bring a lot of trouble to 
a great many people. And the blackmailer sometimes finds himself in 
jail at the end of it.

FAVELL
Oh, I see. You're going to hold de Winter's hand through all this, just 
because he's the big noise around here, and he's actually permitted you 
to dine with him.

COL. JULYAN
Be careful, Favell. You've brought an accusation of murder. Have you 
any witnesses?

FAVELL
I do have a witness.

COL. JULYAN
Oh.

FAVELL
It's that fellow Ben. If stupid coroner hadn't been as much of a snob 
as you are, he'd have seen that half-wit was hiding something.

COL.JULYAN
And why should Ben do that?

FAVELL
Because we caught him once, Rebecca and I, peering at us through the 
cottage window. Rebecca threatened him with the asylum. That's why he 
was afraid to speak. But he was always hanging about and he must have 
seen this whole thing.

FRANK
It's ridiculous even listening to all this.

FAVELL
Ah. You're like a little trades union, all of you, aren't you? And if 
my guess is right, Crawley, there's a bit of malice in your soul toward 
me, isn't there? Crawley didn't have much success with Rebecca, but -- 
er -- he ought to have more luck this time. The bride will be grateful 
for your fraternal arm, Crawley, in a week of so. Every time she 
faints, in fact... 

COL. JULYAN
De Winter! De Winter!

I
Maxim, please!

FAVELL
That temper of yours will do you in yet, Max.

PROPRIETOR
Oh -- ah, excuse me, gentlemen. Now, is there anything else?

FAVELL
Yes. You might bring Mr. de Winter a sedative.

COL. JULYAN
No, no. Nothing at all. Just leave us.

PROPRIETOR
Very good, sir.

COL. JULYAN
Now, Favell, let's get this business over. As you seem to have worked 
out the whole thing so carefully, perhaps you can provide us also with 
a motive?

FAVELL
Ah, I knew you were going to bring that up, Colonel. I've read enough 
detective stories to know there must always be a motive. And, if you'll 
all excuse me a moment, I'll supply that, too.

MAXIM
I wish you would go home. You ought not to be here through all this.

I
Please let me stay, Maxim.

FRANK
Surely, Colonel Julyan, you're not going to allow this fellow to... 

COL. JULYAN
My opinion of Favell is no higher than yours, Crawley. But in my 
official capacity I have no alternative but to pursue his accusation.

FAVELL
I entirely agree with you, Colonel. In a matter as serious as this we 
should make sure of every point -- explore every avenue and, in fact, 
if I may coin a phrase, leave no stone unturned.

FAVELL
Ah, here she is -- missing link -- the witness who will help supply the 
motive! Colonel Julyan -- Mrs. Danvers. I believe you know everyone 
else.

COL. JULYAN
Won't you sit down?

FAVELL
No offense, Colonel, but I think I'll put this to Danny. She'll 
understand it more easily. Danny, who was Rebecca's doctor?

MRS. DANVERS
Mrs. de Winter always had Dr. McClean from the village.

FAVELL
Now, you heard. I said Rebecca's doctor in London.

MRS. DANVERS
I don't know anything about that.

FAVELL
Oh, don't give me that, Danny. You know everything about Rebecca. You 
know she was in love with me, didn't you? Surely you haven't forgotten 
the good times she and I used to have down at the cottage on the beach.

MRS. DANVERS
She had a right to amuse herself, didn't she? Love was a game to her, 
only a game. It made her laugh, I tell you. She used to sit on her bed 
and rock with laughter at the lot of you.

COL. JULYAN
Can you think of any reason why Mrs. de Winter should have taken her 
own life?

MRS. DANVERS
No. No, I'll refuse to believe it. I knew everything about her. I won't 
believe it.

FAVELL
There, you see? It's impossible. She knows that as well as I do. Now 
listen to me, Danny. We know that Rebecca went to a doctor in London on 
the last day of her life. Who was it?

MRS. DANVERS
I don't know.

FAVELL
Oh, I understand, Danny. You think we're asking you to reveal secrets 
of Rebecca's life. You're trying to defend her. But that's what I'm 
doing. I'm trying to clear her name of the suspicion of suicide.

COL. JULYAN
Mrs. Danvers -- it has been suggested -- that Mrs. de Winter was 
deliberately murdered.

FAVELL
There you have it in a nutshell, Danny. But there's one more thing 
you'll want to know -- that name of the murderer. It's a lovely name 
that rolls off the tongue so easily -- George Fortescue Maximilian de 
Winter.

MRS. DANVERS
There was a doctor. Mrs. de Winter sometimes went to him privately. She 
used to go to him even before she was married.

FAVELL
We don't want reminiscences, Danny. What was his name?

MRS. DANVERS
Dr. Baker -- one-six-five Goldhawk Road -- Shepherd's Bush.

FAVELL
There you are, Colonel. There's where you'll find your motive! Go and 
question Dr. Baker. He'll tell you why Rebecca went to him, to confirm 
the fact that she was going to have a child -- a sweet, curly-headed 
little child.

MRS. DANVERS
It isn't true! It isn't true! She would have told me.

FAVELL
She told Max about it. Max knew he wasn't the father! So, like the 
gentleman of the old school that he is, he killed her!

COL. JULYAN
I'm afraid we shall have to question this Dr. Baker.

FAVELL
Hear! Hear! But for safety's sake, I think I'd like to go along, too.

COL. JULYAN
Yes, unfortunately I suppose you have the right to ask that. I'll see 
the coroner and have the inquest postponed pending further evidence.

FAVELL
I say, aren't you rather afraid that the -- er -- prisoner, shall we 
say, might bolt?

COL. JULYAN
You have my word for it that he will not do that.

FAVELL
Toodle-oo, Max. Come along, Danny. Let's leave the unhappy couple to 
spend their last moments together alone.

I
Are -- are you sure you don't want me to go with you, Maxim?

MAXIM
No, darling. It will be very tiring for you. I'll be back the very 
first thing in the morning. And -- er -- I won't even stop to sleep. 

I
I'll be waiting for you.

COL. JULYAN
Ready, Maxim?

MAXIM
Yes.

COL. JULYAN
You two go on ahead. I'll follw with Favell.

COL. JULYAN
Dr. Baker, you may have seen Mr. de Winter's name in the papers 
recently... 

DR. BAKER
Oh, yes. Yes, in connection with the body that was found in a boat. My 
wife was reading all about it. It was a very sad case. My condolences, 
Mr. de Winter.

FAVELL
Oh, this is going to take hours. Let me... 

COL. JULYANA
Don't bother, Favell. I think I can tell Dr. Baker. We're trying to 
discover certain facts concerning the late Mrs. de Winter's activities 
on the day of her death, October the 12th last year. I want you to tell 
me, it you can, if anyone of that name paid you a visit on that date.

DR. BAKER
I'm awfully sorry. I'm afraid I can't help you. I should have 
remembered the name de Winter. I've never attended a Mrs. de Winter in 
my life.

FAVELL
Well, how can you possibly tell all your patiets' names?

DR. BAKER
Oh, I can look it up in my engagement diary, if you like. Did you say 
the twelfth of October.

COL. JULYAN
Yes.

DR. BAKER
Here we are. No. No de Winter.

FAVELL
Are you sure?

DR. BAKER
Here are all the appointments for that day. Ross, Campbell, Steadall, 
Perrino, Danvers, Mathews... 

FAVELL
Danny! What the devil!

COL. JULYAN
Would you read that name again? Did you say Danvers?

DR. BAKER
Yes, I have a Mrs. Danvers for three o'clock.

FAVELL
What did she look like? Can you remember?

DR. BAKER
Yes, I remember her quite well. She was a very beautiful woman -- tall, 
dark, exquisitely dressed.

FRANK
Rebecca!

COL. JULYAN
The lady must have used an assumed name.

DR. BAKER
Is that so? This is a surprise. I'd known her a long time.

FAVELL
What was the matter with her?

DR. BAKER
My dear sir, but there are certain ethics.

FRANK
Could you supply a reason, Dr. Baker, for Mrs. de Winter's suicide?

FAVELL
For her murder, you mean! She was going to have a kid, wasn't she? Come 
on -- out with it. Tell me what else would a woman of her class be 
doing in a dump like this.

DR. BAKER
I take it the official nature of this visit makes it necessary for me 
to... 

COL. JULYAN
I assure you we'd not be troubling you, if it were not necessary.

DR. BAKER
You want to know if I can suggest any motive as to why Mrs. de Winter 
should have taken her life? Yes, I think I can. The woman who called 
herself Mrs. Danvers was very seriously ill.

MAXIM
She was not going to have a child?

DR. BAKER
That was what she thought. My diagnosis was different. I sent her to a 
well-known specialist for an examination and -- X-rays. And on this 
date she returned to me for his report. I remember her standing here -- 
holding out her hand for the photograph. 'I want to know the truth,' 
she said. 'I don't want soft words and a bedside manner. If I'm for it, 
you can tell me right away.' I knew she was not the type to accept a 
lie. She'd asked for the truth. I let her have it. She thanked me. I 
never saw her again, so I assumed that... 

MAXIM
What was wrong with her?

DR. BAKER
Cancer. Yes, the growth was deep-rooted. An operation would've been no 
earthly use at all. In a short time she would've been under morphia. 
There was nothing that could be done for her -- except wait.

MAXIM
Did she say anything, when you told her?

DR. BAKER
She smiled in a queer sort of way. Your wife was a wouderful woman, Mr. 
de Winter. And, oh, yes, I remember she said something that struck me 
as being very peculiar at the time. When I told her it was a matter of 
months, she said, 'Oh, no, Doctor. Not that long.'

COL. JULYAN
You've been very kind. You've told us all we wanted to know. We shall 
probably need an official verification.

DR. BAKER
Verification?

COL. JULYAN
Yes. That is to confirm the verdict of suicide.

DR. BAKER
I understand. Can I offer you gentlemen a glass of sherry?

COL. JULYAN
No, very kind. I think we ought to be going.

FRANK
Thank heaven we know the truth!

COL. JULYAN
Dreadful thing! Dreadful! No young, lovely woman like her! No wonder... 

FAVELL
I never had the remotest idea. Neither did Danny, I'm sure. I wish I 
had a drink!

FRANK
Will we be -- be needed at the inquest any further, Colonel Julyan?

COL. JULYAN
No. I can see to it that Maxim's not troubled any further.

MAXIM
Thank you, sir.

FAVELL
Are you ready to start, Colonel?

COL. JULYAN
No, thank you. I'm staying in town tonight. Let me tell you, Favell, 
blackmail is not much of a profession. We know how to deal with it in 
our part of the world, strange as it may seem to you.

FAVELL
I'm sure I don't know what you're talking about. But if you ever need a 
new car, Colonel, just let me know.

MAXIM
It's impossible to thank you for your kindness to us through all this. 
You know what I feel about it without my saying anything.

COL. JULYAN
Not at all. Put the whole thing behind you. Better let your wife know. 
She'll be getting worried.

MAXIM
Yes, of course. I'll phone her at once, and then we'll get straight 
down to Manderley.

COL. JULYAN
Goodbye, Crawley. Maxim's got a great friend.

MAXIM
Frank... 

FRANK
Yes, Maxim?

MAXIM
Something you don't know.

FRANK
Oh, no there isn't.

MAXIM
I didn't kill her, Frank. But I know now that when she told me about 
the child, she wanted me to kill her. She lied on purpose. She foresaw 
the whole thing. That's why she stood there laughing when she... 

FRANK
Don't think about it any more.

MAXIM
Thank you, Frank.

FAVELL
Hello, Danny. I just wanted to tell you the news. Rebecca held out on 
both of us. She had cancer. Yes -- suicide. And now Max and that dear 
little bride of his will be able to stay on at Manderley and live 
happily ever after. Bye-bye, Danny.

POLICEMAN
Is this your car, sir?

FAVELL
Yes.

POLICEMAN
Will you be going soon? This isn't a parking place, you know.

FAVELL
Oh, isn't it? Oh, people are entitled to leave their cars outside, if 
they want to. It's a pity, some of you fellows haven't anything better 
to do.

FRANK
When you phoned, did she say she'd wait up?

MAXIM
I asked her to go to bed, but she wouldn't hear of it. I wish I could 
get some more speed out of this thing.

FRANK
Is something worrying you, Maxim?

MAXIM
I can't get over the feeling something's wrong.

MAXIM
Frank!

FRANK
What's the matter? Why did we stop?

MAXIM
What -- what's the time?

FRANK
Oh, this clock's wrong. Must be three or four. Why?

MAXIM
That can't be the dawn breaking over there?

FRANK
It's in the winter that you see the Northern Lights, isn't it?

MAXIM
That's not the Northern Lights. That's Manderley!

MAXIM
Frith! Frith! Mrs. de Winter! Where is she?

FRITH
I thought I saw her, sir.

MAXIM
Where?

I
Maxim! Thank heaven you've come back to me!

MAXIM
Are you all right, darling?

I
Oh, yes, I'm all right.

MAXIM
Are you all right?

I
Mrs. Danvers -- she's gone mad. She said she'd rather destroy Manderley 
than see us happy here.

ROBERT
Look! The West Wing!

THE END
