THE FACULTY                        

Scene 1

Setting
Outside on the football field Coach Willis screams at his football 
players as they do the plays he wrote up himself. However, on the 
field, nothing is going as he planned. Nothing is good for him. Nothing 
is perfect. He screams at them how they're going to die on Friday when 
they play the only team that can kick their ass. After the practice he 
yells at the star quarterback Stan on how he needs to open his eyes and 
play better. Stan's friend Gabe tells him to shake it off and the two 
head for the locker room. In a fit of rage, the coach heaves over the 
bench knocking down the huge tubs of water for the players. He kicks a 
sprinkler and it flickers on...he puts his foot over it and then kneels 
down and places his hand over it. A large shadow appears behind him. 
The coach turns around.

COACH
Yeah...  what?

A few hours after school ended, a few teachers including Principal 
Drake, Mr. Tate, Mrs. Olson, and Mrs. Brummel, get together in the 
faculty lounge to have a faculty meeting.

DRAKE
Let me finish this quickly so we can go home...it's late. Mrs. Brummel, 
with all sadness, no new computers.


BRUMMEL
Oh but-


DRAKE
But get the service guy down here and get the old ones juiced. Mr. 
Tate, you're dreaming. Absolutely no field trip to New York City.


TATE
Look I don't think you understand...


DRAKE
You're not getting out of Ohio, re-think it...and finally, Mrs. Olson. 
There's just no money for a musical this year.

There's a moment of silence and all the teachers look sadly at each 
other. Mr. Tate lights up a cigarette.

TATE
But I bet the football team gets their new jerseys and their new 
equipment.


DRAKE
Have you seen the football stadium on a Friday night, Mr. Tate?

The entire town is here. (She starts to gather her things, ready to 
leave.)

DRAKE
This is a football town, let me remind you, and yes, the team will get 
new jerseys, new knee pads, new jock straps, and everything else they 
want in the name of education because that is what the school board 
wants. As well as what the parents in this town want. My frustrated 
hands are tied.


Scene 2

Setting
Outside the school, after the meeting, Mr. Tate and Mrs. Brummel walk 
down the stairs talking to vent their frustration.

BRUMMEL
You know I don't see why we can't have a few new computers so the 
children can learn a little something...

Mrs. Olson stands at the top of the stairs with Principal Drake as she 
searches her bag for her keys.

OLSON
Oh Ms. Drake, the Drama Club had their hearts set on 'Guys and Dolls' 
this year.


DRAKE
Well... Maybe if they used last years set from 'Our Town'... Shit, I 
forgot my keys. I gotta go back in. See you in the morning Mrs. Olson.


Scene 3

Setting
In the school again. Drake re-enters the pitch-dark school and walks 
towards her office, humming a little tune. She finds her keys and as 
she turns to leave she runs into Coach Willis, who blocked her exit 
from the office.

DRAKE (startled)
Coach Willis...what can I do for you?


COACH (slurred voice)
You look...very, very pretty tonight...Ms Drake. 


DRAKE
Have you been drinking Coach?

Willis, obviously looking for an excuse, sees a set of pencils on 
Drake's desk. He's master of the situation now.

COACH
I'm sorry to bother you but I... can't seem to find a... pencil.


DRAKE
You don't need a pencil Coach...you need a good night's sleep.

Drake tries to walk past him. He blocks her path.

COACH
I really need a pencil.


DRAKE (irritated)
Sleep it off coach! 

Drake tries to move past him again, but again he blocks her path.

COACH
Do you have a pencil?


DRAKE
Jesus Christ! Yes I have a pencil! I have plenty of pencils!

She walks towards her desk and grabs a long, sharp pencil and gives it 
to the coach.

DRAKE
Look. Why don't you and your pencil go home? It's late. 

Drake tries to move past him, but yet again he blocks her.

COACH
You look very, very pretty tonight.

Principal Drake is now, to say the least, upset.

DRAKE (threatening)
Harassment has a very fine line coach. Haven't you read your handbook?

Suddenly, the coach grabs her hand and shoves the pencil all the way 
through. Drake cries out in pain. The coach rips the pencil from her 
hand and admires the blood on it.

COACH (half to himself)
I always wanted to do that....

Drake rakes her keys against his face, making two large cuts that 
instantly begin to bleed. She accidently drops them, and runs out of 
the room. As she runs through the hallway the coach gets on the loud 
speaker.

COACH (Through PA System)
Would Ms. Drake please report to the principal's office?

Drake runs into a Science room trying to find a hiding spot. The coach 
quickly spots her runs into the room and tries to grab her. Drake 
bashes him in the head with a large class beaker. She then runs out of 
the room and towards the main door of the school. Mrs. Olson stands 
there wondering what the confusion is about.

OLSON
I forgot my grade book!


DRAKE (frantically)
Open the door, god damnit! 

She tries to open the door, but notices the chain  around the two 
handles.  She is locked in.

OLSON
I don't have my keys! (panicking) Let me get help!


DRAKE
No, no! Don't leave me!


OLSON
Where are your keys?


DRAKE
In the office. 

Drake looks toward her office which is only a few yards away. 

DRAKE
I need to get my keys.


OLSON
Please let me get help!


DRAKE
No, just talk to me, okay? 

She starts to walk towards her office cautiously, fully aware that a 
killer is in her vicinity, but not knowing where.

OLSON (Through closed door)
Oh Ms. Drake, please be careful!

Drake fetches her keys nervously humming a tune and grabs a pair of 
scissors for protection. She then hears Mrs. Olson screaming for her.

OLSON (frantically)
Ms Drake! He's coming! He's coming! Hurry!!

Drake darts out of her office noticing the coach, who  is at the end of 
the hallway picking pieces of glass from his skull. He gives Ms. Drake 
an admiring look. She races towards the front door fumbling with her 
keys. The coach starts to walk towards her, Mrs. Olson panics, warning 
Ms Drake. The coach then starts to run towards Drake. Drake drops the 
keys and gets them up off the floor.

DRAKE
Help me!

She gets the lock opened and outside right as the coach reaches the 
door. She wraps the chain around and tries to lock it to trap the coach 
inside. She drops the scissors while attempting to close the lock. She 
kicks them behind her before the coach can get to them. Mrs. Olson 
picks them up. Ms. Drake gets the lock closed and pauses.

DRAKE
Prick!

She looks at Mrs. Olson, who stares at her in a deadly trance. Mrs. 
Olson holds the scissors high in her hand and starts to slash Drake to 
the ground. Every cut gives birth to a new wound, each bleeding 
continuously. Drake falls down. Coach Willis looks at Mrs. Olson in an 
approving waythrough the window of the door. She smiles sarcastically.

OLSON
I always wanted to do that.


Scene 4

Setting
Outside Herrington High School kids are just arriving to start the day. 
Friends meet up with friends, girls gossip on the latest news, busses 
arrive and are quickly emptied with kids; the typical morning madness. 
A girl carelessly slides her car into a parallel parking spot crashing 
into the person in front of her. The girl who owns the now smashed car 
gets out quickly and pulls the girl in the other car from behind the 
wheel onto the ground. The other girl reacts by pushing the first onto 
the hood of her car. The fight continues. All of a sudden a black 1970 
Pontiac GTO  with two broad, red stripes running over the hood, roof 
and trunk speeds into the school parking lot, making lots of noise, 
accompanied by some music, which can't be heard clearly until Zeke, the 
high school bad boy, gets out. He pops open the trunk and takes a few 
pens filled with white powder. He quickly stuffs them in his pocket and 
walks toward the school. Casey, a nerdy photographer for the school 
paper, departs the school bus 

STOKELY
Crash and burn Casey.

Again the frame freezes for a few seconds as the name "STOKELY" is 
displayed.
Stokely walks towards the main entrance of the school trying to avoid 
the eyes that were upon her. She takes notice to a girl screaming 
vulgar language at her boyfriend to get out of the car. Without 
realizing it she bumps into Stan, the head quarterback of the school 
football team. Stan quickly makes sure she's okay but without listening 
Stokely gets cocky with him.

STOKELY
 Walk much?


STAN
You ran into me, beast!

Across the courtyard, Stan's girlfriend Delilah chatters with her 
fellow cheerleader friends.

DELILAH
Okay, now listen up. Let's all wear the same uniforms and keep the hair 
the same. Okay? No hair spray no teasing, just...elegant. Simple. 
Great.

The frame again stops for a few seconds. The name "DELILAH" appears on 
screen.
Stan approaches Delilah and tries to kiss her. Delilah pulls away.

DELILAH
Whoa! Stan, watch it. These are Estee Lauder lips. They take 72 minutes 
to apply.


STAN
Sorrrrry (sarcastic)... Hey, can we talk?


DELILAH
Well, I can't right now. I need a new headline for the school paper. 
It's important.

They start to walk into the school.

STAN
So is this.


DELILAH
Sure you think so honey.

She tries to escape him.

STAN
 In fact....it might be just the story you're looking for.


DELILAH
Do the words 'editor in chief' mean anything to you? Leave the news to 
me, okay? Later. (She walks away from him in a hurry.)

Back outside the school the jocks that ganged up on Casey ram him into 
the flagpole, legs open. A blond girl in a flowered dress named Mary-
Beth watches the act cautiously as she walks toward the main building. 
Today is her first day of school. She just moved into Herrington, Ohio 
from Atlanta. She approaches two nose pierced and tattooed girls 
sitting by the main entrance of the school. One has a chain from her 
nose ring that connects to her earring. They are just staring ahead, 
ignoring the world around them.

MARY-BETH
Excuse me? Could you please tell me where the office is? It's my first 
day here.

The girl with the chain doesn't answer for a moment but finally points 
her thumb into the school building.

MARY-BETH
Thank you. I'm Mary-Beth Louise Hutchinson. I love what you've done 
with you're nose ring. It really brings out the color in your eyes. 

Yet again, the frame stops for a minute as the name "MARY-BETH" appears 
on-screen.
She quickly heads inside the school watching a girl cussing out her 
boyfriend, slapping him walking down the hallway until they both leave 
the building. This is a normal routine for this couple.

Scene 5

Setting
Inside the boys bathroom.  Zeke walks in and hands fake ID's to two 
guys  waiting for him.

CUSTOMER 1
Dude, that's not me. Doesn't even look like me.


CUSTOMER 2
That's 50 bucks right?


CUSTOMER 1
Does that look like me?! 

Customer 1 shows his friend the fake ID which has a middle aged Chinese 
man on it. The costomer is a younger white guy.....

ZEKE
Uh, it's the new you.


CUSTOMER 1
 I don't know man, how do we know these things are really gonna work?


ZEKE
 Trust me man, I'm brilliant.


CUSTOMER 1
Then why are you repeating your senior year?

Zeke realizes he has to think fast to keep his customers satisfied.

ZEKE
Alright, look man...I'll throw in a couple hits of this. 

He pulls out a pen full of white powder for each guy and holds it out 
to them.

ZEKE
Scat. My own recipe. Guaranteed to jack you up.

As he gives them the pens, the image freezes again. The name "ZEKE" is 
displayed.
The two customers take the drug and give Zeke his money. They exit the 
bathroom. Inside the handicap stall Casey nurses the bloody nose he 
recieved from the elbow incident earlier. The first bell rings and Zeke 
is already gone.

CASEY (under his breath)
FUCK!


Scene 6

Setting
Inside the faculty lounge. The faculty is preparing for another long, 
hard day at school. Nurse Harper sits at a table in the center of the 
lounge and wraps up a custodian's wounded finger.

HARPER
You've got to remember
the projector's got teeth. (coughs) Sharp ones. 

She coughs again and blows her nose. She obviously has a cold. She 
reaches into her purse and pulls out some medication.

CUSTODIAN
We should get hazard pay for this sort of faulty equipment.


HARPER
Yeah right.

Mr. Furlong, the biology teacher, walks into the office.

FURLONG
Well good morning Nurse Harper...how's your cold?


HARPER (blows her nose)
I can't get rid of it...

A young teacher named Ms. Burke is sitting at the table. She talks with 
another much older teacher named Mrs. Brummel. Brummel drops her book, 
and Ms.Burke helpfully reaches for it.  Mr. Tate witnesses the scene.

TATE (under his breath)
Can we say 'retirement'?

Tate nods his head and sips from his coffee to which he has added some 
whisky. Ms. Burke gives Mr. Tate the evil eye for making such a snide 
remark.

FURLONG (to Harper)
 Maybe you should just go home?


HARPER
 No thank you. I'm saving my sick days for when I feel better.

She takes some medicine. Furlong, who was coming on to Nurse Harper the 
whole time, realises the uselessness of his attempts.

FURLONG (under his breath)
Why don't I just stick a fucking pen in my eye?

Every one is suffering from the heat. The gym coach walks in the room 
and heads straight for the water dispenser, takes a cup and starts 
drinking water. Mr. Tate looks at the air conditioner with a sign 
saying "Don't Turn On, Ever" on it.

TATE
Why won't that bitch turn the air conditioning on?!


FURLONG
 Hey, speaking of which, has anybody seen Principal Drake?


TATE
Maybe she had a sunstroke and died.

Coach Willis drinks glass after glass of water..barely stopping to 
breath. Mr. Furlong takes notice of how the coach is drinking so much 
water.

FURLONG (whispers to Tate)
What's up with the coach? He thirsty...


TATE
Probably some pre-game ritual.


FURLONG
Just looking at him makes me want to take a piss.

Mrs. Olson walks in, with a completely new hairstyle. The coach takes a 
break from his water drinking and takes notice of her.

COACH
 Well hello Mrs. Olson, you look very, very pretty today.

She smiles devilishly.

Scene 7

Setting
Inside a classroom. Ms. Burke tries desperately for her class to 
participate in the learning discussion.  She writes the name Crusoe on 
the blackboard.

BURKE (very silently)
 Now, what was Crusoe's greatest fear?

It is quiet in the classroom for about ten seconds.

BURKE (hesitating)
 Anyone... ?

Ms. Burke asked the question without expecting an answer, and she 
doesn't get one. Finally, Zeke smiles and raises his hand to answer.

BURKE
Yes?


ZEKE
Crusoe was afraid he'd be stuck on that island forever...with nothing 
but calluses. 

He grins and his fellow classmates giggle.

BURKE
That's not correct Zeke....Isolation was his greatest fear.


ZEKE
Yes, but, his external existence in no way compared to his internal 
agony of the loneliness he felt. 

Ms. Burke is somewhat surprised to receive such an intelligent answer. 

BURKE (gently)
That's very good, Zeke.

Zeke waits a moment, puts a pen in his mouth and grins.

ZEKE
Like I said...calluses. 

The class laughs.

Scene 8

Setting
In the hall. Delilah is talking with a fellow member of the school 
paper, dodging people slamming their lockers as she walks to her next 
class.

GIRL
So Kathy gets one thing, then Melissa gets cover, and Jenny has her own 
story. So which one do you want me to print?


DELILAH
Print them all, he's a jerk.

Stan approaches Delilah and pulls her aside the chaos.

STAN
Hey, we need to talk.


DELILAH
No Stan, baby... I'm in a crisis... not now.


STAN
I'm quitting football.


DELILAH
You're not playing tomorrow?


STAN
No, I'm not playing this year. Would you listen to me? I'm quitting the 
team, I'm not 

playing ball anymore.

DELILAH (shocked)
What brought this on?


STAN
Well, I've been weighing the importance of being a jock with my 
impending future and decided-


DELILAH
You just...decided?! Stan, what about college? Football scholarship is 
your only shot!


STAN
If I quit now I can work harder at studying...Maybe raise my grades a 
little? I'd rather go to college based on my brain.


DELILAH
You're not good at studying! Stan, you're good at football. You should 
stick with what you're good at!


STAN
Yeah, I've always been good at football, and basketball, and every 
other sport I've tried. Maybe I should try something I'm not so good 
at, something different.


DELILAH
Yeah and what am I supposed to do while you're on a yellow book quest 
for a brain?


STAN (disgusted)
What?! 


DELILAH
The excepted social order is that head cheerleader dates star 
quarterbacks, not academic wannabes!


STAN
Don't be so superficial...


DELILAH
Superficial...four syllables...that's really good Stan, you're on your 
way. Let me know how the cancer cure goes.

She rolls her eyes and walks away, leaving Stan standing alone in the 
now empty hallway.

STAN (sighs)
I was hoping you'd be with me on this...

The second bell rings and he walks to his second class.

Scene 9

Setting
Inside Mr. Tate's history class. Mr. Tate takes a sip from his spiked 
coffee and wearily opens up the textbook.

TATE
Now if everyone would turn to Chapter 4
The Nation of the State. (reads from the book) Only through the 
conformity among the masses can the unified state offer the benefits of 
power, order and security-


STAN (interrupting)
Actually, we covered that last week, Mr. Tate. We're on chapter 5.


TATE (sighs)
Whatever. Now if you can all please join Stan on chapter 5
Individual Action in Society...

Stokely, who is also in the class, looks at Stan and runs her hand 
through her short hair, pushing it behind her ear. She then looks 
behind her at some girls including the new Mary-Beth and then turns her 
head back to the front of the class.

Scene 10

Setting
During lunch. Mary-Beth approaches Stokely who sits alone at a table 
reading a book.

MARY-BETH (happily)
Whatcha reading?

Surprised, Stokely looks up from her book, pushing her hair behind her 
ear once again. She doesn't answer Mary-Beth so Mary-Beth takes a seat 
across from her and looks at the title of the book.

MARY-BETH
Double Star by Robert Heinlein...(smiles) Are you one of those science 
fiction people? Y'all believe in multiple universes and alien beings 
and stuff? 

Stokely still doesn't answer. Instead she just looks down, avoiding 
Mary-Beth who won't give up.

MARY-BETH
I'm feeling very alien myself today. I'm Mary-Beth Louise Hutchinson. I 
just moved from Atlanta. I'm new here.


STOKELY
 No shit.


MARY-BETH
What's your name?


STOKELY
Why do you want to know my name?


MARY-BETH
Cause I've got no friends. And correct me if I'm wrong but you seem to 
have one less that that. I just thought-

She is interrupted by Delilah who approaches them and puts her arm 
around Stokely, who quickly pushes it off her back.

DELILAH
 Aww....Stokleeeey...Are you seducing the new students again? 

Her attention goes to Mary-Beth. 

DELILAH
Hi! I'm Delilah! Happy to have you at Herrington!


MARY-BETH
Thank you!


DELILAH
Hey, don't you just love the way Stokely accessorizes all the different 
shades of black in her outfit?

Stokely cringes at the put down Delilah just fired at her and turns her 
head towards her.

STOKELY
Fuck you, gutter slut.


DELILAH
Now I don't know why you insist on being such a bad example for your 
people...


MARY-BETH
What people?


DELILAH
Well I hope you're not a violent lesbian like your newfound friend 
here.


MARY-BETH
Uh, no...I'm not aware of any lesbianism in my leanage.


DELILAH
Aww, that's too bad...guess you'll just have to keep looking for Miss 
Right, Stokely!

Stokely quickly gathers up her bag and book and leaves the table.

STOKELY
Bi-poid bitch! 

She gives Delilah the finger as she walks away.

DELILAH (to Mary-Beth, with an I-told-you-so-look)
Violent...


MARY-BETH
 Yeah... 

Delilah walks away. Mary Beth sits alone at the table with still no 
friends.

Scene 11

Setting
Casey sits eating his lunch alone and far away from people in the top 
of the bleachers facing the football field. When he finishes he walks 
down the tall white bleachers and onto the football field, eyes to the 
ground. He notices a flesh-colored bug-like creature that appears dead 
on the ground and picks it up. He has never seen this type of insect 
before. A loud voice behind him makes him jump and he almost drops the 
insect. He turns around to face the coach.

COACH
What are you doing here?


CASEY (nervously)
I was just eating my lunch, sir 


COACH
Well, this ain't the cafeteria, son.


CASEY
I know, sir...sorry 'bout that, sir.

Casey starts to walk away the Coach calls back to him and he turns back 
around to face him.

COACH
You're uh... I forget your name.


CASEY
Casey.


COACH
Right... I've seen ya around. You're not really into sports?


CASEY
I don't believe a person should run unless he's being chased.


COACH
Being chased eh? I like that. 

He eyes Casey meanly. Casey is afraid.

COACH
 Get outta here!

Casey turns and runs away.

Scene 12

Setting
In the hallway, Stokely walks in the school hiding from the world. 
She's embarrassed from what had just happened with Delilah. She walks 
up to the water fountain just opposite the faculty lounge. Mrs. Olson 
enters the faculty lounge and asks Mrs. Brummel a question.

OLSON
Could I have a word with you, Mrs. Brummel?

Stokely and Mrs. Olson make eye contact. Mrs. Olson glared at Stokely 
in a "it's-non-of-your-business" type of way and closed the door. 
Stokely takes a sip from the water fountain. She turns to walk further 
down the hall, but she bumps into Stan.

STOKELY
Man... get a fucking eye dog! 

She pushes him aside and continues to stomp down the hallway.

STAN
Maybe if you didn't paint your fuckin' eyes shut... 

He gets a drink from the fountain..

Scene 13

Setting
Mr. Furlong's Room. Casey walks in his biology classroom a few minutes 
after Stokely.

CASEY
Mr. Furlong!


FURLONG
Present...


CASEY
I found something down on the football field. I thought you might like 
to take a look.


FURLONG
What is it?

He takes the body from Casey.

CASEY
I was hoping you could tell me.

Mary-Beth walks in, sees Stokely and sits beside her.

MARY-BETH (eagerly)
Wanna be lab partners? 

Stokely doesn't answer Mary-Beth and pushes her hair behind her ear 
like she always does.

MARY-BETH
I didn't know you were a lesbian. I don't think I've ever met one 
before. Been out long? You know I think it's very impressive that-


STOKELY
Look, I'm not a lesbian alright?


MARY-BETH
Be one...please - feel free.


STOKELY
You know, you were right about me. I don't have any friends and I like 
it that way. Being a lesbian is just my sense of security. (looks down 
at the desk)


MARY-BETH
Security against what?


STOKELY
People like you.


MARY-BETH (smiles)
Complex! 


FURLONG
It certainly has a zone that only exists in the kidney of certain squid 
and octupi. (examining the insect under a microscope as more students 
fill the room) Which doesn't make sense because...


CASEY
This is Ohio.

The students pile around Mr. Furlong trying to get a glimpse.

FURLONG
Right. It's a pelagic organism.


STUDENT
What's pelagic?


ZEKE
Sea-dwelling organism.

Zeke had just walked in, dropped his stuff off and walked over to the 
microscope to take a look.

FURLONG
Exactly. Zeke, I don't recognize this surface tissue at all. Casey I 
don't want to blow smoke but I think you found a new species here.


GABE
Yeah right!


FURLONG
Hey it could happen, new species are found every day!

Zeke states something about how scientists didn't find very many new 
species until the late 20th century. Mary-Beth overhears him and 
approaches him.

MARY-BETH
Wow you just know everything! (smiles)


ZEKE (looks up from microscope)
I'm a contradiction.


FURLONG
Check the follicles on its underbelly... 

Zeke takes a look.

CASEY
What does that mean?


FURLONG
It means we need to call the university. Let them take a look. Maybe 
even get in on some of their federal grant money. Our secret alright?

Gabe takes a look at it and then at Stokely.

GABE
Hey Stokely, maybe it's from your planet.  (laughs)


STOKELY
Oh blow me you fucker! 

She pushes him knocking over a beaker full of water. Some water gets on 
the body and it flickers alive.

CASEY
Whoa! Did you see that?

The specimen pulsates.

GABE
What's it doing?

Furlong grabs the creature and brings it over to an aquarium on the 
other side of the room.

ZEKE
So you think it's amphibian?


FURLONG
Well, the water resuscitated it... 

Furlong picks it up and holds it above the water tank about to drop it 
in

CASEY
Hey couldn't that kill it?


GABE
Yeah you don't wanna drown it.


FURLONG
Only one way to find out... 

He gently lets it fall into the water tank. It sinks a little bit then 
begins to swim. Long red feelers extend from its body. It makes a quick 
swerve. Some of the students gasp.

FURLONG
 It's alright. It's okay. 

He puts on a glove and dips his hand into the tank.

GABE
Mr. Furlong, what are you doing?


FURLONG
Just gonna check his prostate. Actually, the surface texture changed 
so...I wanna feel it. 

He reaches in about to touch it. The creature makes a swift turn and 
produced another one like itself, exactly the same.

FURLONG
 Jesus! It can replicate! 

As Furlong's hand gets closer to one of the creatures, teeth emerge 
from its front and bites him in the finger.

FURLONG
Ah! Fuck! 

Furlong pulls his hand out sharply. His finger is bleeding fiercely. 

FURLONG
God Damnit! 

Aware that he is in the presence of students he calms down.

FURLONG
I'm okay.


CASEY
It has teeth...where did it get teeth?


FURLONG
I don't know...I'm gonna call the university right now.

Stokely presses her hand against the glass of the tank and gazed at the 
creature, mesmerized.

Scene 14

Setting
The poolroom. A whistle blows. Guys dive off the side of the pool and 
swim laps. Stan stands with the Coach.

STAN
You know, Coach, I've just been thinking ahead and...I've decided to 
quit the team to concentrate on my academics...


COACH (calmly)
Okay. Stan, we'll miss you.


STAN
That's it?


COACH
Well what do you want me to say? My star quarterback comes to me the 
day before 

we play the only team in the district that can kick our ass telling me 
he doesn't want to play. There's something up with that. You seem to be 
going through some life defining turning point 
and I'm not going to stand in the way of the human condition. You do 
what you have to do.

STAN
Thanks for hearing, me coach.


COACH
What kind of human being would I be if I didn't?

Stan walks away and heads toward the boys' locker room.

Scene 15

Setting
Inside the boys' locker room.  Gabe and another jock run through the 
aisles making the lives of various people miserable. Including Casey. 
Gabe bumps into him on purpose.

GABE
Hey yo piss wad, you're in my way.


CASEY (face to his locker)
I'm sorry...I was breathing here.


GABE
Yeah that's the problem, you're occupying my air, anal  probe.

He and his friend start laughing. Just as they were about to smash 
Casey, Stan walks in. Their attention quickly turns to him.

GABE
Hey yo Stan! Tomorrow night right?!

He gives him a high five.

GABE
That's right! We're gonna kill 'em! WOO HOO!

He and his friend run out of the locker room. Casey turns to Stan who 
is getting ready for a shower.

CASEY
It must really blow being you.


STAN (walking to shower)
You have no idea. 

Stan turns on the shower and lets the warm water drip over his body. 
There's a noise and Stan jumps. Ignoring it he rubs soap over his face 
and his eyes. Someone steps into the shower.

STAN
Yo Casey is that you? 

There's no answer. He can't see because there was soap in his eyes. He 
washes the soap off his face and turns around to see Mrs. Brummel, half 
naked, walking towards him, reaching for him.

STAN
Mrs. Brummel, what the fuck?!

She peels off her shirt revealing her naked sagging breasts, gasping 
for air.

BRUMMEL
Help me I...can't....breathe! I don't know what's happening! They want 
everyone!

Casey enters to see what the yelling is about. Stan looks at Casey.

STAN
Get help!

He holds Mrs. Brummel against him and touched her matted hair. As he 
took his hand away a big clump of hair and flesh stuck to his hand. 
Disgusted he pushed her away and let the clot of hair fall to the 
ground.                   

Scene 16

Setting
Casey and Stan find themselves in the office telling Mrs. Olson what 
happened to Mrs. Brummel.

STAN
Is she gonna be okay?


OLSON
Stan, Mrs. Brummel was diagnosed with cancer and she's on a lot of 
medication at the moment and it causes disorientation. We were hoping 
she could make it through the school year but unfortunately...

Casey is looking at the window. He notices the sprinklers are running 
on the football field and the Coach is right in the middle of the 
spraying water arms crossed with a strangely enjoying expression on his 
face. Something weird is going on no doubt. Casey takes out his camera 
and zoomed in to make sure it's him.

OLSON
You can understand the sensitive nature of the situation...


STAN
Yeah.


OLSON
Casey, you understand?

There is no answer as Casey is still fixated on the Coach.

OLSON
Casey, you understand? (louder) Casey?


CASEY
(finally realizing she was talking to him) Um yeah, sure... 

He takes one last glance at the coach.

Scene 17

Setting
Outside in the student parking lot.  Zeke is doing business. 

GUY 1
It's Neve Campbell?


GUY 2
...and Jennifer Love Hewitt right?


ZEKE
Yep...Party of Prettiness.


GUY 1
And they're naked?


ZEKE
Full frontal... 

He pulls two videotapes out of the trunk of his car and hands them to 
two guys. They pay him. The two students scatter away. Ms Burke 
approaches him.

BURKE
Zeke. You cannot conduct personal business on school property.

Zeke sits down on the trunk of his car. 

ZEKE
Well you see Ms Burke, we have a problem because I'm sitting on my 
car...which is my property.


BURKE
Well um, I've have complaints from several students who say you've sold 
them mind-altering substances. Now do you want to tell me about it or 
take it up with Principal Drake?


ZEKE
You're too tense, Ms Burke.

Zeke hops off his car and opens the trunk.

ZEKE
But I've got just the thing for ya.


BURKE
You know Zeke, I'm the authority figure here! It's time you realized 
that!

Zeke holds up a small white box.

ZEKE (playing commercial guy)
For gentle relief of blockage... caused by stress. Chocolate flavored 
Laxatives.


BURKE
Ya know...If you applied just 5 percent of that intellect to your 
studies -


ZEKE
Not a chocolate lover huh? 

He throws the container back into his trunk and searches for something 
else.

BURKE
You could have made up your finals last summer instead of repeating 
your senior year.


ZEKE (showing another box)
How 'bout these? Condoms. Magnum sized. And they're cherry flavored. 

He holds them out for her to take. She doesn't. 

ZEKE
Oh come on Ms Burke. They're on me.

Ms. Burke is obviously shocked by Zeke's actions.

BURKE (sadly)
That's so rude.

She walks away swiftly.

Scene 18

Setting
Delilah and Casey walk through the halls.

DELILAH
I need a lead story. I have no page one.


CASEY
We found a weird thing in biology today. Bizarre ... really bizarre. 
Mr. Furlong thinks it might be a new species!


DELILAH (not impressed)
Oh, let's just race to the stands for that issue.


CASEY (hurt)
Why do you rag on me so much? What did I do? 


DELILAH
Nothing! It's just your fate. You're just the geeky Stephen King kid. 
There's one in every school.

She starts to open the door to the faculty lounge, but Casey pulls her 
back.

CASEY
We can't go in here.


DELILAH (sighs)
Come on, Casey you're with me...be brave. 

The two of them enter the lounge.

CASEY
Okay...so...what are we looking for?


DELILAH
Anything.

She looks through someone's bag.

DELILAH
Hmm...Nurse Harper's medicated. Big surprise.

Casey looks into a cupboard and pulls out a bottle of alcohol and shows 
it to Delilah.

DELILAH
No...I exposed Mr. Tate's alcohol problem  last year....nobody cares. 
And his wife 

certainly didn't when she ran off with the baby-sitter.

CASEY
God you can be such a....


DELILAH
What?!


CASEY
Pretty cool human being when you're not being a first class, grade A 
bitch.


DELILAH (smiles)
Are you hitting on me Casey? 

Casey quickly looks down.

CASEY
No... no... I just think you can be cool... sometimes... This not being 
one of them.

They look at each other longingly for a moment, until they hear Mrs. 
Olson and Coach Willis entering the office. They quickly rush into the 
faculty closet to hide, looking through the blinds to see what was 
going on. The two teachers head directly to the water dispenser. The 
Coach fills a paper cup and drinks from it. Mrs. Olson fills a cup also 
but just splashes it onto her face, hard.

OLSON
What happened to Mrs. Brummel?


COACH (heartless)
She didn't make it...her body was too old. The heat got to her.


OLSON
Oh yeah, it can make your nerve system... pulsive.


COACH
Has the entire faculty been commuted?


OLSON
Almost.


COACH
what about the students?


OLSON
Soon.

The door opens and the two teachers turn to see Nurse Harper walk in. 
She blows her nose for what seems like the millionth time today and 
feels her head. Warm. When is this terrible cold going to pass? She 
goes to her bag to get her pills.

HARPER
What are you two still doing here? I thought I was the only one left? 

She takes her medication out out of her purse.

HARPER
There's not enough drugs in this world.

Mrs. Olson nods to the Coach as Nurse Harper walks over to the fridge 
and gets her tomato juice and takes a sip. The coach walks up to Nurse 
Harper. He stands behind her, very close. When she turns around she 
bumps into him and is startled. She gives him a scared, avoiding smile.

NURSE
What?


COACH
I have a pain. (looks over to Mrs. Olson and back to Nurse Harper) I 
have a pain... right here.

He points to his neck then grabs the Nurse and flings her onto the sofa 
and gets on top of her. The Coach's eyes turn totally white, and his 
face is covered by what look like very thick veins. He moves his face 
close to Nurse Harper's ear. Casey and Delilah watch from behind the 
door of the closet in horror as something comes out of the coach's 
mouth and squirmed into the Nurse's ear. Some blood is sprayed onto 
Nurse Harper's cheek, and her face is now also covered by the same 
'veins' as the Coach's. Mrs. Olson doesn't even try to help the Nurse.  
In the closet, Delilah backs into something causing the corpse of Mrs. 
Brummel to fall over on her. She yelps as she struggles to get the 
stinking body off her. The Coach looks up at the closet. Mrs. Olson 
motions for him to check the closet. As he opens the door Casey plunges 
a broom into the Coach's groin causing him to fall down. Delilah pushes 
Mrs. Olson onto the table and they both attempt to run out of the room 
and into the hallway when the commuted Nurse Harp

DELILAH
What the hell is going on?

In the hallway, Casey and Delilah nearly run into Principal Drake and 
Mr. Tate.

DRAKE
 Hey, slow down there!


DELILAH
They killed Mrs. Brummel and they're after us!


DRAKE (calmly)
Hey, hey, hey. Who killed who? 


TATE
What's going on?


CASEY
The Coach and Mrs. Olson just attacked the Nurse!


DELILAH
Look, just ask Nurse Harper! Th-They attacked her.


TATE
Who attacked who? Mrs. Drake, what's going on?


DRAKE (calmly)
I have no idea. I came in right in the middle of it.


CASEY
Mrs. Brummel wigged out in the shower and then we found her body in the 
faculty closet.


TATE
What were you doing in the faculty closet?


CASEY (clearly thinking 'That's not important'!)
Look, the coach and Mrs. Olson attacked the Nurse!


DRAKE
Why would they do that?

Delilah spots the Nurse come out of the lounge along with the coach and 
Mrs. Olson, unscratched.

DELILAH
There's Nurse Harper. You can just ask her... uh oh.

Drake eyes the two students evilly.

DRAKE
Now we can get to the bottom of this. 


DELILAH (scared)
Oh fuck...


CASEY
Delilah run!

They both take off down the hallway to the nearest exit. Casey falls 
down and calls for Delilah's help but she keeps going out the door. He 
gets up and runs all the way home to call his parents and the police.

Scene 19

Setting
A few minutes later Casey is back in the school with his parents and 
two cops. Principal Drake, Mrs. Olson and Coach Willis are also there, 
pretending to be innocence itself.

COP 1
In here?


CASEY
Yes. The body was in the closet.


DRAKE
And why would Mrs. Brummel be in the closet?


CASEY (looking toward the coach and Mrs. Olson)
Because they killed her! 


DRAKE (perkily)
Oh, that's right. 


COACH
Hey Casey! Sorry about  that mix up today... didn't mean to scare you!


DRAKE (to cops)
Apparently there's been a misunderstanding. 


CASEY'S DAD
Still if we could just see inside the closet...


DRAKE
Certainly.

Principal Drake opens the closet for the cops to examine. Their 
flashlights search the closet and come across a life like doll face. 
Drake pulls out the life size doll and puts it on the table. Casey's 
eyes dart form the closet and back to the doll, confused.

COP 2
It's a doll...


DRAKE
Meet Resuscitation Annie. We use her to teach the kids CPR. Although I 
guess she does resemble  Mrs. Brummel slightly. (laughs)


COP 1
You dialed 911 for a dead doll?!


CASEY
That wasn't there! They put that there! 

Casey looks to the cops and his parents for help.

CASEY
 Look, I'm not makin' this up! Call Delilah...she'll tell you!


COP 1
We called. She isn't home.


CASEY
She was here with me, she saw it too. They attacked Nurse Harper!


DRAKE
Nurse Harper is epileptic. She's prone to go off. 


COACH
She was having an attack.


OLSON
Luckily she carries her medicine in her bag so we were able to help 
her!

Casey remembers Delilah finding medication in the nurses bag and 
replacing it.

DRAKE
We think it was brought on by this terrible cold she's had. I took her 
home myself, you can call her if you like.


COP 1
Well, it is procedure...


DRAKE
You can use the phone in my office.

Drake leads him into her office and shuts the door.

COACH
That was some fast running you did down the hall, son. We could sure 
use your speed. There's a lot of chasin' on the field.


CASEY'S DAD
Hear that Case? He said you got speed.


CASEY (quietly)
Thank you.  

There is a jolt from inside the principal's office and then the Cop and 
Drake come out.

DRAKE
We've just spoken with both Mrs. Brummel and Nurse Harper.


CASEY (stares at cop's emotionless face and whispers)
They got 'em...

The cop smiles. Casey's parents interpret it as plain friendlyness but 
Casey knows what it is
an evil grin that says "I know it, you know it. But what're ya gonna do 
about it?"

COP 1
Nothing here. Just some kid looking for some attention. (glares at 
Casey) Let's go.


COP 2
Alright.  

Both cops leave the office.

CASEY'S MOM
Evelyn knows someone downtown, a professional. I'm going to make an 
appointment.


CASEY'S DAD
He's a straight A student and now he needs a professional? Christ 
sakes...


CASEY
I don't need a shrink... I know what I saw.


CASEY'S MOM (to Ms. Drake)
I am... so sorry, Ms. Drake.


DRAKE  (motioning to Casey's mom)
Maybe if we spoke privately in my office we could...


CASEY
No! No...Mom...uh, maybe you're right.  Maybe I should she this woman, 
this doctor. Can we just go?

Casey's mother looks at Casey then at the Principal. 

CASEY'S MOM
 We'll handle this at home Ms. Drake,  and again, sorry for all this 
trouble.


DRAKE
I can see how it all got out of hand. It's a pretty bizarre series of 
events.


CASEY'S DAD
Well it's our fault and it won't happen again. Good luck at the game 
tomarrow, coach.

The family starts to leave the room.

DRAKE
See ya tomorrow Casey. 

She winks to him.

Scene 20

Setting
Back at Casey's house.  His mom and dad are destroying his room looking 
for drugs. His mom is standing at the door as his father rummages all 
around the room.

CASEY'S MOM
Check his school book. They hind the drugs in the spine of the book...I 
saw it on Dateline.


CASEY'S DAD
What are you on, son!?


CASEY
I'm not doing drugs...

Casey's dad rips the book to shreds.

CASEY
Hey! That's government property, dad!


CASEY'S DAD
Shit! (calms down) We love you son. We're only trying to help you.


CASEY
Then believe me. I'm telling the truth...look something weird is 
happening at school. The teachers - something's happened to them.


CASEY'S DAD
Don't push it! Alright? I'm bending this as far as I can but if you 
push it-


CASEY
Just let me call Delilah. Please! 

Casey looks towards his wall dedicated to her with pictures of her all 
over.

CASEY'S DAD
Okay. That's it. Your privileges are now over. No phone...(he rips the 
phone jack out of the wall) Sorry, over! (he walks over to Casey's 
computer)  No Internet... (steals the external modem) You'll go to 
school, straight to school, and you'll come straight home. Got it?


CASEY
I'm not going back to that school. They're waiting for me.


CASEY'S DAD
Oh you'll go...if I have to tie you to the desk myself, you'll go.

Casey's dad takes a stereo off a shelf. 

CASEY'S DAD
No music.


CASEY'S MOM  (whispering and pointing to under the bed mattress)
His porno.


CASEY'S DAD
His porno? Oh ho ho ho... 

Casey's Dad looks at him and then goes to get the magazines.  

CASEY'S DAD
  Sorry pal...no more floggin' the bishop.


CASEY'S MOM
We're gonna get you help. Don't worry.


CASEY'S DAD
Get your room cleaned up.

They both leave... after a moment Casey messes with his computer to 
make some noise then sneaks out the window to go to Delilah. As soon as 
he's on the roof he sees the faculty outside on the sidewalk. Losing 
his balance, Casey falls off the roof and into a bush. The teachers 
swarm around him. Getting to his feet he runs into his dad.

CASEY'S DAD
What the hell do you think you're doing?


CASEY
Dad! They're here! The faculty! 

He turns around seeing no one.

CASEY'S DAD
Get in the house.

Casey's dad looks around in disbelief. A silhouette or a woman closing 
a shade in the house window.

Scene 21

Setting
The next morning Casey's Dad drives him to school.

CASEY'S DAD
Go on, son.


CASEY
Dad, I'm begging you. Please.


CASEY'S DAD
Come home right after school, your mom's looking into a doctor.

Casey slowly gets out of the car and walks towards the school. He looks 
back and notices the coach talking to his dad. The coach waves to him 
and Casey keeps walking. He walks through the busy halls and runs into 
Delilah who's normally styled hair is up in a pony tail and isn't hair-
sprayed at all today...and she actually has glasses on.

CASEY
Whoa! Delilah! Wow, you look...


DELILAH
Don't. Come on...

She leads him into the bathroom and into a stall. They listen to an 
announcement calling for three students, including Delilah to report to 
the office. 

DELILAH
This is all your fault! Do you think I am used to being called to the 
office?! They're after me!


CASEY
Did you tell your parents?


DELILAH
My mom...didn't believe me. She drinks...it's a nightmare. Look, we've 
got to go to the police.


CASEY
No, I'm telling you they got the police!


DELILAH
We don't know what they've got.


CASEY
Look, you saw it. Mrs. Brummel was dead. They attacked Nurse Harper!


DELILAH
They? Who are THEY, Casey? We don't even know who THEY are! I'm

gonna check if everything's okay.

CASEY
Its a devil's cult or something. Maybe they worship comets. Who the 
fuck knows?


DELILAH
Well I'm not going to stay in the handicapped bathroom for the rest of 
my life.  

Delilah walks out. Casey follows.

CASEY
 Where are you going?


DELILAH
I'm going to find Stan.


CASEY
Stan?! Why Stan?! 

He follows her.

Scene 22

Setting
In the faculty lounge. Every one is drinking water. The usual coffee 
isn't brewing. The custodian is bringing in dozens of large water 
dispensers. The cabinets once filled with files are now filled with 
hundreds of bottles of water.

Scene 23

Setting
In history class, students are gathering to their seats. Mary-Beth and 
Stokely walk together. Stokely gazes at Stan who was getting his 
assignments out, ready for class.

MARY-BETH
You should just go talk to him.


STOKELY
No way. 

As they pass him, Mary-Beth pushes Stokely lightly causing her to fall 
into Stan's lap. She quickly gets up, embarrassed.

STOKELY
Um, sorry. So you, are you uh, ready for the big game?


STAN
Quit the team.


STOKELY
Are you serious?!


STAN
Yeah.

Stokely takes a seat in the chair in front of Stan, while talking to 
him.

STOKELY
Why?


STAN
Just tired of everyone kissing my ass cause I'm captain of the football 
team. Ya know? The coach, the students, even the teachers. Last year 
after we won the two way conference...


STOKELY
That was thanks to you and your competent passes.


STAN
You follow our games? (smiles) I wouldn't have guessed that...

Stokely smiles back.

STAN
I made a D on a biology test, right, and then Furlong changed it to an 
A. He said I deserved it for having such a strong arm. That really 
bugged me ya know? I worked hard for that D, that was my D, I deserved 
that D. I just wish people would let me be...


STOKELY (slightly sceptic but supportive all the same)
 A D student?


STAN 
Yeah. (smiles)

The bell ring and Mr. Tate walks in. He looked tired and it's obvious 
he won't take any shit. Seeing a student listen to music through head 
phones, he yanked them out of his ear and smashed a large file of 
papers onto his desk. The students gasp, turn around, and pay close 
attention.

TATE
Okay, class. Listen up! Today we are going to write a living family 
history.

Students wonder what's going on.

TATE
Everybody take out a piece of paper and write down every name of every 
living member of your family. Begin with your immediate family, those 
living with you, then include the name of your nearest living 
relatives. 

Tate takes a noisy swig from a bottle of water that has replaced his 
usual drink.

STAN (raises hand)
Is this going to be on the test?


TATE (smiles evilly)
This is the test!


Scene 24

Setting
During passing period.  Mary-Beth sees Zeke get pen looking containers 
of white powder out of his locker and putting them into his pant 
pocket. Curious, she approaches him.

MARY-BETH
What is that?


ZEKE
It's magic dust. Want some?


MARY-BETH
Nah. I have low tolerance, but thank you.


ZEKE
You sure?


MARY-BETH
I'm allergic to Aspirin so that...(she points to the white powder) 
would probably kill me. (laughs)


ZEKE
Well we don't want to do that then.


MARY-BETH
No... I'm Mary-Beth Louise Hutchinson I'm from-


ZEKE
Atlanta. I know.


MARY-BETH
That's right... (smiles) you know everything...


ZEKE
I'm Zeke.


MARY-BETH
I know.


ZEKE
It's a pleasure.


MARY-BETH
Pleasure's all mine!


Scene 25

Setting
Stan and Stokely walk out of their class and look at the long line of 
students leading into the Nurse's office.

STAN
Weird, isn't it?


STOKELY
What do you think it is?


STAN
Locker search, maybe?


STOKELY
Something weird's going on here.

Gabe, dressed in his football gear, sees Stan and greets him.

GABE
Whoa! Stan!


STAN
Hey Gabe.


GABE
Hey you're not pissed are ya?


STAN
No, why?


GABE
Well, I'm the new team captain.

They start to walk down the hall, the line grows.

STAN
What's going on here?


GABE
Nurse Harper is giving an ear exam or some shit like that.

They look into the office where Nurse Harper inserts a strange-looking 
instrument into a student's ears. Before we see the effect, Principal 
Drake shuts the door. Stan notices a couple of police officers 
following Ms. Olson into the school halls.

STAN
And that takes the police?

Delilah finally spots Stan and grabs a hold of him.

DELILAH
Stan, I need to talk to you.


STAN
I didn't know you wear glasses...


DELILAH
Contacts...Come on it's important.

They walk away, leaving Stokely alone. Casey sees her and approaches 
her.

CASEY
Stokely...got a second? I need your help.


Scene 26

Setting
Outside.  Mary-Beth and Zeke walk the courtyard dodging people.

MARY-BETH
So after the accident I came to live here with relatives, my cousins 
and well, here I am.

They spot a girl and her boyfriend sitting on a bench. The girl is 
yelling and smacking her boyfriend. He does absolutely nothing. Just 
sits there as she smacks the shit out of him. Zeke notices that a lot 
of students are acting weird. There is a large line for the water 
fountain and everyone seems zonked out.

ZEKE
Yeah, my mom and dad are dead too.


MARY-BETH
Really?


ZEKE
Yeah, they're still breathing but for all intents and purposes they're 
very much dead.


MARY-BETH
Well you and I have a lot in common then.


ZEKE
Yeah...you notice anything off here today at school?


MARY-BETH
I'm from the South, you're all off.

The two guys that Zeke sold fake IDs to come up to the two of them.

CUSTOMER 1
Dude we need some scat.


CUSTOMER 2
We can't deal with this, there's some weird shit going down here.


ZEKE (routined)
Five bucks a pop.

They pay him and he gives them each three pen containers full of Scat.

ZEKE
Hey man how's the new you workin' out?


CUSTOMER 1
Workin' out just fine. Hey, ya got any more?


ZEKE (suspicious)
Sure, man.


CUSTOMER 1
Really? Why don't you just give us all you got?

He hands out the money and Zeke gives him another handful of pens.

ZEKE
Alright. Dope.


CUSTOMER 2
Got any more?


ZEKE
Not on me, man.


CUSTOMER 1
What about in your locker?


CUSTOMER 2
Or your car? Got any in there?


ZEKE
Use with moderation, boys...


CUSTOMER 1
Come on Zeke, hook us up....


STUDENT
Whoa! Check out Ms. Burke!

Ms. Burke strolls up to Zeke looking like a super model instead of the 
dorky teacher she normally was.

ZEKE
Ahh man...I'm really not in the mood Ms. Burke... I'm clean.

Ms. Burke pushes him and students circle around them to see the action.

ZEKE
Not today. It's too damn hot and I've got zero fucking tolerance.


BURKE
Eat me you asshole! I'm the one with no tolerance, you pathetic little 
runt!


CUSTOMER 1
Ouch... good comeback...

Both Zeke's customers walk away. 

ZEKE
What are you going to do, call my mother? (laughs)


BURKE
Now how am I supposed to do that little Zekey boy? Do you even know 
where she is? Europe? Sri Lanka? Japan? I wonder what remote location 
she went to this week to hide from her great big bastard mistake. I've 
taken your shit for too fuckin' long! Dickless, drugged induced excuse 
for a human being!


ZEKE
Oh, woman, what are you on?!


BURKE
Woman?! 

She pushes him. 

BURKE
Did you just say woman?! I'm sick of you, little boy. And if I have to 
see you peddling your little wonder dust again, I'm gonna shove my foot 
so far up your ass 

you'll be sucking my toes till graduation.
She pushes him aside and stomps off. Every student makes sure not to 
get in her way.

ZEKE
She got some bad shit...


Scene 27

Setting
Casey and Stokely are sitting at a table in the library.

CASEY
....And then they chased us but we got away.


STOKELY
So all of this started when Mrs. Brummel did a wet and wild in the 
boys' locker room?


CASEY
I think so. Everybody's been acting really strange. Especially the 
faculty.


STOKELY
Tell me about it. It's like they all turned us into fuckin pod people 
or something.


CASEY
To what people?


STOKELY
Invasion of the Body Snatchers... a small town gets taken over by 
aliens... that was a joke.


CASEY
Well, what if it really happened?


STOKELY
 What if what really happened?


CASEY
Maybe something's taken over our school.


STOKELY
The Body Snatchers is just a story somebody made up dingus... It's 
located in the  fiction section of the library.


CASEY
Yeah and so is Schindler's List... look, all fiction is based on some 
sort of truth right?  What does  Ms. Burke teach us in English 101? 
Write what you know. How do you know this writer guy...


STOKELY
Jack Finney.


CASEY
.......didn't encounter aliens in high school, which led him to write a 
story about an alien invasion?


STOKELY
Your conspiracy theory is flawed.


CASEY
How so?


STOKELY
Well Jack Finney's Body Snatchers is a blatant rip off of The Puppet 
Masters by Robert Heinlein, so you can completely disregard your 
statement...


CASEY
Whatever...the point is they're here, they've been here, and they'll be 
here again.


STOKELY
You know Casey, I think you've been racked into the flag pole one too 
many times.


CASEY
How do you know there's not a conspiracy?! Like maybe the X-Files is 
right. Where do all these movies come from anyway? How do we know 
Spielberg, Lucas, Sonnenfeld, Emmerich haven't been visited by aliens? 
Maybe they're aliens themselves...maybe they're simply preparing us for 
what's to come.


STOKELY
You know Casey, it's fiction. Okay? It's science fiction.


CASEY
Exactly! Everyone is getting hung up on the science part which has 
nothing to do with it - they're really getting us with the fiction. 


STOKELY
So...aliens just have been setting us up over the years, creating this 
happy, make-believe, little existence with their E.T. and their Men in 
Black movies just so nobody would believe it if it really happened?


CASEY
I think so. Yeah....you're not buying this are you?


STOKELY
No. I'm not. But... (smiles) it's kinda cool.


CASEY
Okay, so what's missing?


STOKELY
Well in the Body Snatchers they were pods but where are they? Where are 
the pods? 


CASEY
There are no pods... There's got to be something else...


STOKELY
In Puppet Masters they were... parasites...

They both look at each other and know what they've got to do.

Scene 28

Setting
In the hall. Stokely and Casey meet up with Delilah and Stan.

DELILAH
I filled Stan in.


CASEY
Come with us... Stokely is on to something.


DELILAH (crosses arms over chest and glares at Stokely)
Really? 

They enter Mr. Furlong's biology lab where the creature Casey had found 
was. Unfortunately the water tank is now empty. There's still water, 
but no creature.

STOKELY
Furlong must have sent it up to the university...


CASEY
Doubtful.


STOKELY
Where else could it be?


DELILAH
What? What is it?


STAN
Would someone please tell me what the hell is going on here?


CASEY
Okay it all started yesterday when I found this thing, this new 
species...


STOKELY
...which is now missing.


CASEY
We think aliens are taking over our school.


STAN (laughs)
What? Come on...


CASEY
You saw what Brummel did in the shower.


DELILAH
And I saw her dead body in the closet.


STOKELY
They've been calling students into the office all day. Students with 
the most influence on them. Including the new team captain.


DELILAH
Looks like you chose the right time to quit football.


STAN
You think aliens have infested our school?


DELILAH
That would explain their weird behavior, wouldn't it?


STAN
Give me a fucking break!


Scene 29

Setting
Storage room. Mary-Beth and Zeke sneak in.

MARY-BETH
So what are we doing here?


ZEKE
Shopping. I've got a very large grocery list


MARY-BETH
What are ya talkin' about?


ZEKE
This is where I get my equipment.


MARY-BETH
You borrow it from science labs?


ZEKE
I like to think of it as stealing actually. 

Zeke takes some tubes and other stuff he needs.

ZEKE
 I'm just doing my part in the deconstruction of America. 

Zeke walks towards Mary-Beth and touches her chin lightly. 

ZEKE
So if anybody finds us in here...just grab a hold of me and pretend 
we're making out. Punishment will be less severe. 

Their lips meet into a soft kiss. Zeke hears voices through the vent to 
the next room.

VOICE 1
You have a better explanation Stan? Great.

Mary-Beth giggles.

VOICE 2
I mean, just listen to yourselves... Teachers are aliens?


ZEKE
Shh... 

They get closer to the vent to listen realizing the voices belonged to 
Casey and Stan.

STAN
That's not just idiotic, that's fuckin psychotic!


Scene 30

Setting
Back in the biology lab.

STAN
Come on guys...this is nuts!


DELILAH
Then why don't you leave Stan? Why are you hanging around? Go to study 
hall or something.


STAN
Oh blow me, Delilah, cause I'm sick of your shit!


DELILAH
Well then get the fuck out of here and take your little freak dyke here 
(points to Stokely) with you!


STOKELY
Fuck you, tit bags!


CASEY
Will everybody calm down?! Please?


STAN (mocking)
Alright Casey...lets go alien for a second...Why here? Why Ohio?


CASEY
If you were going to take over the world, would you blow up the White 
House, Independence Day style, or sneak in through the back door?

Suddenly there's a scream causing the 4 students to jump as Zeke 
staggers in holding his chest. Then he laughs followed by Mary-Beth and 
swaggers over to Casey.

ZEKE
Casey. Man the only person in this school that's an alien... is you.


CASEY
Fuck you, Zeke.

Zeke pretends to look hurt.  Mr. Furlong walks in.

FURLONG
What's going on here? Shouldn't you people be in class?


ZEKE
Well, its like this Mr. Ferlone...Casey, here, thinks you're an alien.


FURLONG (laughs)
Is that true Casey?


STAN
The whole faculty actually.

Mr. Furlong goes from amused to grim and pulls down the shade over the 
door window.

FURLONG
Is that true... Casey?


CASEY
The uh - the thing I found yesterday...where is it?


FURLONG
I sent it to the university.


STOKELY
Do they know what it is?

Furlong shrugs his shoulders.

ZEKE
Look, sorry to impose and disrupt, Mr. Furlong

Zeke walks toward the door but science teacher takes his arm and holds 
tight.

FURLONG
If you would kindly take your seats, this will be over quite quickly. 
Now sit down! 

Furlong pushes Zeke to the ground and starts to get the other people. 
When he tries to get Delilah, Casey runs up to push the science teacher 
but instead he grabs Casey by the throat with one hand, in a strangle-
hold. Zeke rushes to the paper cutter, puts his foot on it and pulls 
the blade off, sending bolts flying around the room. Holding it like a 
baseball bat he approaches the teacher who still has Casey by the 
throat.

ZEKE
Put him the fuck down, Furlong!


FURLONG (still holding Casey)
This is for the best, Zeke.

Furlong throws Casey backwards in to the grasp of Stan who gladly 
catches his fall. Zeke swings the blade cutting off the teacher's 
fingers. The teacher screams in pain. Red feelers quirm from the wound. 
His fingers start to move on the ground and chase the remaining 
students. Stokely and Delilah scream as the fingers squirm up their 
legs. The science teacher starts to fight Zeke, knocking the large 
blade out of his hand. Zeke reached into his pocket and pulls out the 
pen full of his home-made drug, scat and plunges it deep into the eye 
of the teacher. Furlong heaves Zeke into the water tank, shattering it 
to a million pieces. Zeke arms another scat pen. White foam squirts out 
of the eye and eventually the teacher falls down, dead. The students 
gather around him, to confirm what they've just seen and to make sure 
he's really dead.

STOKELY
Isn't this usually the point where someone says 'Let's get the fuck 
outta here'?


STAN
Let's get the fuck outta here!

They head to the door and Casey gets a jar and puts one of Mr. 
Ferlone's fingers inside which now looked morelike the thing he found 
the day before.

STAN
Aliens are takin' over the fucking school.


CASEY
Gotta have proof.


STAN
Alright everybody, here's the deal
Run straight to the parking lot. We'll all go together and try to stay 
calm. 

They open the science door and walk out into the hallway. The kids all 
stare at them oddly whispering their names. They are all drinking water 
bottle after bottle. They get to the parking lot and to Zeke's car.

ZEKE
My car.


CASEY
Where are we going?


DELILAH
Anywhere but here.

They all get in and just as Stan is about to get in, Gabe and some 
other members of the football team call to him.

GABE
Hey Stan! Where ya going to buddy?


STAN
We're uh...


ZEKE
Come on Stan. Jesus Christ, just get in the fucking car.


GABE
You sure you don't want to play with us?


STAN
Nah, Gabe... 

Stan gets in the car and Zeke starts to peel away.

STAN (to Gabe)  ...but thanks. (to Zeke) What the fuck is going on?


ZEKE
(lights a cigarette) I dunno. Let's see if anyone's talkin'.

Zeke turns on the radio and tries to find a channel. There is only 
static.

STAN
(Sees a police road block ahead) What the fuck is this all about 


ZEKE
(Thinking the cops are infecting people they stop...) Fuck this shit! 
(He floors the car and swerves off to the road to the right.)

They speed down the road.

Scene 31

Setting
Zeke's house. They walk into Zeke's garage. There's a table covered 
with test tubes full of gold-colored and green liquid. Next to it are a 
few dozen capsules. Beside that is a cage with a white experiment rat 
named Oscar. On the table is a gun. 

CASEY
Where's your mom and dad?


ZEKE
Europe... I think. 

He starts to mess with the test tubes. The others admire the hundreds 
of test tubes, full of experimental fluids.

STAN
This is some serious shit.

Mary-Beth takes notice to the capsules and some boxes. On the boxes are 
the words "NO SLEEP" and an image of a truck. They are merely caffeine 
pills.

MARY-BETH
Is this your big secret? Caffiene pills?


ZEKE
(covers up the pills) You didn't see that.


DELILAH
What are we going to do? (looks to Stan) With the police 

not being an option?

STAN
I can call my dad, he'd know what to do.


CASEY
Yeah, if he's even your dad anymore.

Stan looks down. Casey spots the gun and looks at it suspiciously.

ZEKE
It's called a gun, man...

Zeke takes the bottle that Casey put one of the teacher's finger in. 
Now it looked more like the thing Casey found on the field, instead of 
a finger.

CASEY
What is it?


ZEKE
We're gonna find out. 

He cuts off a small piece of the organism and places it in the rat's 
cage. 

ZEKE
Hey, come here, Oscar...

He drips a bit of water on it. The rat approaches it and the thing 
sucks itself into the rats ear. The rat squeals, is fazed for a minute 
and then proceeds to the other side of its cage to drink water. 

ZEKE
Geez! 

Zeke puts his hand in the cage and grabs the rat. 

ZEKE
I'm sorry buddy... 

Zeke uses two fingers to break the rat's neck, killing it. A few 
minutes later, the rat is cut open. Zeke takes the creature out of the 
rat's body and places it under a microscope. 

ZEKE
See it's a parasite. It attaches itself to a host and then it controls 
it. 

He slits the side of the creature open with a scalpel revealing body 
parts. 

ZEKE
It's incomplete...


STOKELY
What do you mean?


ZEKE
It can survive on its own, but it's really part of a greater organism. 
It has the ability to replicate but it needs a host.... something 
moist. (pointing to the rat)  See what it did to Oscar's insides? It 
dried them out.


STAN
Isn't a human's body composed mainly of water?


STOKELY
They're using us...drying us out.


STAN
Like Mrs. Brummel-


CASEY
I heard the coach say her body was too old - she couldn't take the 
heat..

Zeke opens a scat pen and covers the creature with it. It shrivels up 
to nothing. 

ZEKE
The drugs are diuretic. Dries it out. Kills it.


STOKELY
They're using us as hosts. They're just turning us into mindless slaves 
they can control.


ZEKE
How do you know that?


DELILAH
She doesn't! She's a trekky sci-fi freak.


STAN
Yeah, who's been right so far.


MARY-BETH
How can we stop it? 

She looks to Stokely for answers. 

CASEY
Yeah Stokely....this is your area.


STOKELY
In theory they're all connected.  If we kill the master we can get them 
all.


DELILAH
In theory...


STAN
What happens to everybody else? The ones that have been taken over. Do 
they just die?


STOKELY
No. They don't. They'd all, th-they'd become human again. But that is 
in theory so... (glares at Delilah)


CASEY
So if we found the leader, and killed it, we'd beat it.


DELILAH
What are we even talking about? I say we get the fuck out of town.


CASEY
And go where?! Don't you see? We gotta stop it or its gonna spread. It 
took the high school in a day and a half - give it a week and we'll 
never outrun it...we have to fight.


STAN
Fight what?! We don't even know who's alien and who's not. What if one 
of us was an alien right now? How would we know?


STOKELY
He's right. How do I really know you're really Casey?


CASEY
How do I really know you're you?


STOKELY
Well, in Body Snatchers humans became emotionless. They completely lost 

their identities.

STAN
The coach had emotion. I mean he's usually a real hard ass but he's 
different somehow. 

His behavior's slightly odd.

DELILAH
Like a star quarterback who mysteriously quits the football team?


STAN
What are you doing Delilah?


DELILAH
I'm just pointing out your slightly odd behavior Stan, you've been 
acting really weird the past couple of days.


STAN
I'm not an alien. I'm discontent.


DELILAH
There's another big word.


STAN
You wanna talk slightly odd?! What about you?! You haven't been without 
your contacts or hair spray since... birth?!


DELILAH
I'm incognito.


STOKELY
We just have to trust each other.


DELILAH
And I'm supposed to trust you? (evilly eyes her) Tell me something Miss 
Lesbian, when did you start liking boys?


STOKELY
What the fuck are you talkin about?


DELILAH
I've seen the way you look at Stan? So when did you stop muff diving?


MARY-BETH
She's not a lesbian alright? That was a hoax.


DELILAH
(wondering about Mary-Beth) Really? 


MARY-BETH
Yeah.


DELILAH
And what about you, Miss Atlanta? It's just really convenient you 
showed up the 

second all these things started happening...what are you doing in Ohio 
anyway?

MARY-BETH
It's not my fault.


ZEKE
(glaring at Delilah) Hey, shut up!


CASEY
She's got a point, Zeke.


STAN
Yeah, Zeke! Professor. I mean you seem to know an awful lot about this 
stuff. No offense but you're not exactly known for your academic 
achievements.


ZEKE
Neither are you, man.


DELILAH
Casey, when did you become Sigourney Weaver?


CASEY
What?


STAN
Alright, this is getting us nowhere.


ZEKE
I've got a solution.

He grabs a capsule of scat.

ZEKE
We know this stuff harms 'em right? 

He holds one out to Stan. 

ZEKE
Take a hit.

Stan doesn't take it.

STAN
 No way man...I don't do drugs.


ZEKE
Aw, come on man. If you're not an alien you got nothin' to worry about.


CASEY
Zeke's right. This is the only way to know for sure.


ZEKE
Yeah come on Stan what are you afraid of man? Look, we all do it.  

Zeke takes more capsules of scat and hands one to Casey.

ZEKE
Casey...


CASEY
Why me first?


ZEKE
It's your birthright, man. Just fucking take it.

Casey looks at it for a moment, holds the capsule to his nose and 
sniffs it. He doesn't shrivel up.

STAN
Now you, Zeke! How do we know you're not one of those fucking things?


ZEKE
I don't get high on my own stash, man.


STAN
Fuck that, man, you're takin' it!

There's a giggle behind him. Casey is high off his ass.

CASEY (high slurred voice)
 Hehehe... You're takin' it! Hahaha!


STAN
What the hell's wrong with you?! 

Stan sees the gun on the table, grabs it and points it to Casey. Casey 
doesn't take notice to the weapon and keeps cracking up.

ZEKE
Nothing's wrong with him, you asshole! He's tweaking, now let him 
fucking tweak!


CASEY
Tweak, tweak, hahahaha!

Stan points the gun towards Zeke.

STAN
Now you.

Zeke sniffs some of the drug up. Nothing happens to him. He hands one 
to Stan, who takes it. Zeke snatches the gun, still pointed at him, 
from Stan's hand. Stan sniffs the scat. Zeke hands one to Stokely.

ZEKE
Stokely...


STOKELY
No, I'm not putting that, that hack drug up my nose...its so....80's.


ZEKE
Aliens are taking over the earth...weigh it. 

Stokely takes the drug and studies it.

STOKELY
What's in it?


ZEKE
Mostly caffeine... and some other household shit.

Stokely sniffs it cautiously... Stan and Casey are cracking up on the 
couch. Stokely sits with her head in her hands, but aside from the 
high, nothing happens to her. Zeke approaches Delilah.

ZEKE
Now you Delilah.


DELILAH
No. (pointing to Mary-Beth) Her first.


MARY-BETH
I'm allergic.


DELILAH
Yeah and I'm Portuguese. Who cares?

Zeke cracks up laughing. It took a while, but he's also high.

ZEKE
Is she always this much fun, man?!


STAN
Sometimes she can be a real bitch! (laughs)

Casey bursts into laughter, Stokely still has her head in her hands.

STAN
You know what I'm saying? Hahaha!


CASEY
Total bitch....hahaha....geez...


ZEKE
You both take it.

Zeke hands one to each of them. Mary-Beth pushes it away.

MARY-BETH
Zeke, I can't, you know I can't!


ZEKE (slightly desperate)
You have to take it.

He hands it back to her. Both of the girls raise it to their nose.

CASEY
Mmmmmm...showdown....ehehehehe.

They both close one nostril... and sniff. Delilah flies back in her 
chair. Stan goes over to make sure she is ok. She turns her face and it 
is crawling underneath the skin. She was an alien.

STAN
Oh shit.... 

Delilah convulses... Casey grabs the gun.

ZEKE
Shoot her...shoot her in the head, Casey!

Casey doesn't move.

DELILAH  (panicking)
I don't know what's happening!


ZEKE
Shoot her, Casey!


STAN
Don't shoot her Casey!


ZEKE
Shoot her! She's fuckin' one of them man!


DELILAH (menacing)
There's nowhere to go...

She approaches the group. 

DELILAH
...no where to hide... 

She comes even closer.

DELILAH
...we're everywhere!

Stokely grabs the gun from Casey. 

STOKELY
I'll fuckin' shoot her! 

Stokely fires the gun a few times, but never hits Delilah. Delilah 
throws herself into the laboratory, dodging the bullets, she pushes the 
glass tubes off the table and destroys all the scat making supplies. 
She then runs out of the lab, out of the garage. Stokely follows her.

STAN
Jesus!

The rest of them follow Stokely. Outside Stokely keeps firing at 
Delilah. A car with one of the teachers pulls up and Delilah hops in 
and they speed away.

STOKELY
I should've know that crazy bitch was one of 'em! (pants)


CASEY
We can get them back, Zeke. We can get them all back!


ZEKE
She destroyed most of my supply.


CASEY
If we can kill the queen we can get them all back!


ZEKE (frustrated)
Fuck!

Mary-Beth walks out, laughing. It appears she too has gotten high. They 
get into Zeke's car and drive off.

ZEKE
How much do we have left?


STAN
Not much.


ZEKE
Well, we only need enough to get the queen. We get her, we get them 
all, right?


STOKELY
I think so.


MARY-BETH
Well, where are we gonna find her?


STAN
Friday night? There's only one place she can be.

They drive to the school, which is lit up. The football game is going 
on and the whole town is there. There is no doubt the queen is there. 
They get out of the car and head to the gymnasium so they can be alone. 
Stan and Stokely go off together to check the football stadium. Their 
school team is kicking the other team's ass. Everytime a member of the 
Chango's gets vertical, a Herrington player drops an alien creature in 
his ear, turning him.

Scene 32

Setting
The Stadium.

STAN
Do you think it's Principal Drake?


STOKELY
Who else? She's in charge! It makes perfect sense. They're getting 
everybody. I mean, the whole town is here!


STAN
By morning, there won't be a human left!

They spot Principal Drake, Mrs. Olson, and Mr. Tate in the stands. The 
Coach is out on the field, guiding the team telling them how to beat 
the shit out of the other team.
Stan and Stokely leave the stands and Drake looks over to see them walk 
away. She walks slowly down the bleachers.

Scene 33

Setting
The gymnasium. Stan and Stokely walk into the gym.                                                                                                                              

STAN
Where are you guys?


STOKELY
We found Drake, she's at the game.

Suddenly the principal walks in and confronts them.

DRAKE
What are you kids doing in here? (Walking into the gym) The gym is 
closed. All of you come with me.


CASEY
We can't do that, Ms. Drake.


DRAKE
And why is that?

She is punched down by Stan and Zeke as they wrap her up in a 
volleyball net. She struggles to get loose. 

DRAKE
Get off!!! You're all expelled!


CASEY
Stop the act. No one's buying it.


STOKELY
We know who you are.

Stan hands Casey a tube of scat and gets himself ready by loading the 
gun.

DRAKE
You're all in a lot of trouble!

She sees the gun and gets scared. 

DRAKE
What are you doing? 


STAN
You ready?


CASEY
Yep.

He holds out to her a capsule of scat. 

CASEY
Sniff this.


DRAKE
No.


CASEY
Sniff it, or he shoots you! (gestures to Stan)


DRAKE (quivering voice)
I will not!


STAN
Now what?


CASEY
Okay, we'll do it the hard way. 

He holds the principles chin steady.

CASEY
We punched it into the science teacher's eye and the reaction was 
instantaneous.


STAN
Okay, you stick her and then I'll shoot her, before it erupts all over 
the place.


DRAKE
Casey! Are you on drugs?

Casey hesitates.

STOKELY
What's wrong?!


CASEY
Are we sure?


DRAKE
Please don't! No, Casey!


STAN
Don't wuss out Casey, just do it!

Casey still doesn't do anything so Zeke grabs the gun from Stan and 
shoots Drake in the head. She falls back and blood puddles around her. 
No movement.

MARY-BETH
What if we were wrong?


STOKELY
Stab her... and find out.

Casey hesitates and looks at the body. Blood pours from Drake's head.

CASEY
I think we made a mistake guys...she's dead-

Drake darts up reaching for them. They all scream. Mary-Beth pours the 
main supply of scat on the principal causing her to convulse and 
shrivel up in a disgusting sucking noise. She was an alien.

STAN
Is that it? Well, let's see if it worked.

Stan heads towards the window to look outside the gym. He noticed it 
had started to rain and that everyone but the team had left for home. 
Stokely stands beside him.

STOKELY
Better have worked - or there's gonna be a lot of infected people going 
home.


CASEY
We're right at ground zero.


STAN
Hey guys, stay here. I'm gonna go check it out. I'm gonna need some 
scat.

Zeke hands him a pen filled with scat.

ZEKE
Use it wisely, man.


CASEY
What if it wasn't Drake?


ZEKE
Then we're fucked.

Stokely gazes into Stan's eyes and just as he was about to leave she 
pulls him back in and kisses him. He looks surprised. Then he smiles.

STOKELY
I just didn't want to never have done that.

Stan leaves and every one stares at Stokely in utter disbelief.

STOKELY
What are you lookin' at?

Casey and Zeke crack up...still getting over their hit of scat.

Scene 34

Setting
Outside in the pouring rain Stan runs to the football field. The team 
and the Coach look up to the sky and red feelers extend from their 
faces catching the falling rain. The Coach smiles, thoroughly enjoying 
the weather. His face is the same as the face on the creature released 
into the tank in the Biology room. The feelers go back into his face 
and he glares at Stan.

STAN
Coach!

Coach Willis  gives signals to the team. Stan's eyes go wide in horror.

Scene 35

Setting
Back inside the gym. Mary-Beth, Stokely, Casey, and Zeke watch out the 
window and see no sign of Stan.

MARY-BETH
Jesus I wish I'd never come here. I don't like this place...


CASEY
Any sight of him?


STOKELY (looking out window)
I can't tell. Can barely see anything.

Suddenly Stan rushes to the door. He tries to get in but realises it's 
locked.

STAN
Okay, Stokely, open the door!


CASEY
No! Stokely, we don't know if its still him.


STAN
No, it's me. Listen it isn't Drake, it's the coach! And he's right 
after me! Open the door!


ZEKE
Don't do it Stoke... Prove it, Stan. Where's the drug?


STAN
I lost it! The coach was too fast for me!

Zeke takes a scat-pen out of his pocket and gives it to Casey.

ZEKE
 Last one, man. 


STAN
Please I'm begging you! Don't leave me out here! Come on Stokely open 
the door!

Casey shoves the drug underneath the door to Stan. 

CASEY
There. Try it. 


STAN
Okay, I'll do it! Just let me do it inside!


ZEKE
No, you'll do it right now man. 


CASEY
Take the test, Stan...


ZEKE
Stan, take the drug man... prove it to us.

Stan reaches for the hit of scat, raises it to his nose, waits for a 
moment and deliberately spills it on the ground, with a demonic smile 
on his face.

ZEKE
Fuck! 


CASEY
Shit!


STAN
Open... the door. 

Stan is trying to get to Stokely. Tears roll down her face because she 
wants to let him in but knows he was already taken over.

STAN
It is so much better. There's no fear. No pain. It's beautiful. And you 
will be beautiful.(Touches the window where Stokely's face is.) You'll 
be beautiful. No problems or worries. We want you. And I want you. I... 
want... you. (yelling)

Now open the fucking door! Open the door!
Marybeth escorts Stokely away from the window.

CASEY
Go a-fucking-way Stan!


STAN
It's too late, Stokely. We've already won. 


ZEKE
No pain, Stan? (holds gun to glass and YELLS) If you come in here I'll 
show you some fucking pain!  

Stan runs away from the window and towards the field. The students sit 
together on the bleachers inside the gym trying to think what to do.

CASEY
I say we go for the coach. He turned Stan... He's the one. Or do you 
want to wait for them to come to us?


MARY-BETH
 Either way we're completely unarmed.


ZEKE
Maybe not. I might have some more scat...in my trunk. 


CASEY
In your trunk. In your car. Amongst the aliens. Ah that's convenient. 


ZEKE
You got a better idea?

Casey and Zeke leave the gym, well aware they're risking their lives. 
They need to reach Zeke's car.

Scene 36

Setting
Outside the gym.

CASEY (cautious)
Stan? You out there buddy? 

They race towards the buses where the team is marching through. They 
crawl under a bus to hide from the football players. All  suited up, 
Stan leads the team. Zeke and Casey hide underneath a bus until they 
pass.

CASEY
Does it really take two of us to get to your car?


ZEKE
Nope. One of us is the decoy. 

Casey gets up from under the bus and bolts leading the troops behind 
him so Zeke could get to his car. To hide Casey gets inside a bus. Its 
windows are plastered with slogans like 'Changos Suck' so it has to be 
a Herrington bus. Casey heads towards the back. The players don't 
notice him. Suddenly Delilah appears out of the dark at the back of the 
bus.

DELILAH
Hello Casey. Where ya gonna go, huh? The class wuss... eternal little 
loser who  comes to school everyday knowing this is it. 

She inches towards him. Casey notices that the football team know he's 
inside the bus and were trying to get in through the emergency exit in 
the back.

DELILAH
 You've been labeled 'pathetic' since first grade and you're afraid 
it's going to bleed over for  the rest of your life. Well we can stop 
it Casey. We can help you belong. Isn't that what you really want? 


CASEY
Please don't do this Delilah.


DELILAH
I havent been this happy since... since... before my dad died. (getting 
closer to him) I know you want me Casey.  (practically breathing on 
him) Come on. Let's do it together.

A football player smashes through one of the back windows. Casey jumps 
and climbs through the port hole on the top of the bus, jumps off the 
bus and ran as fast as he could with a trail of football players behind 
him.  In the parking lot Zeke opens the trunk of his car frantically 
searching for scat. Senses something. Looks up..Ms Burke is standing 
near him in a sexy, red dress. 

ZEKE
Hello Ms. Burke. 


BURKE
Hello sweetie pie. Whatcha looking for?


ZEKE
Ah nothin important. I take it you've changed your mind about the 
chocolate laxatives?


BURKE
Actually I had my heart set on something cherry flavored... (smiles) 
...if you know what I mean.


ZEKE
Sorry, I'm all out of those.

Zeke spots a few capsules of scat inside his car between the seats.

ZEKE
 I got something else for you though.


BURKE
Yeah?


ZEKE
Oh yeah.


BURKE
Something... tasty?


ZEKE (whispers)
Lemme hook ya up. 

Quickly, Zeke darts into the drivers seat of the car and starts it. As 
he floors it, she jumps through his passenger window. She tries to pass 
a parasite into Zeke's ear so he swerves back and forth trying to throw 
her off. He frantically searches for the capsules. Once he has them he 
puts his seat belt on and drives as fast as he can into a bus causing 
the unprotected teacher to fly out the window. The engine catches on 
fire but Zeke manages to squirm out. He then saw Ms Burke's head 
slithering towards her searching body. Confused and bewildered, Zeke 
gives up.

ZEKE
Fuck this, I'm outta here.

He slowly jogs back towards the gym.

Scene 37

Setting
Back in the gym, Stokely and Mary-Beth talk quietly.

STOKELY
I always thought the only alien in this high school was me. 


MARY-BETH
Not the case. Who do you think it is, the master alien, the queen bee? 


STOKELY
It really could be anyone.


MARY-BETH
What happens at the end of these stories Stokely? How does Invasion of 
the Bodies Snatchers turn out?


STOKELY
They get us. They win, we lose.


MARY-BETH
Do we? Maybe we really win. Look at Stan, he didn't look unhappy. 


STOKELY
That's cause it wasn't Stan. They took away who he was.


MARY-BETH
Maybe they just bettered who he was. Cleared away his confusion. I know 
you pride yourself upon being the outsider, Stokely. But aren't you 
tired of being something you're not? 

Stokely looks at her confused.

MARY-BETH
 I know I am. 

She smacks Stokely with a large tentacle for an arm. Stokely falls off 
the bleachers.

STOKELY
No... fucking... way!

She starts to run as Mary-Beth morphs into a large for of the parasite 
with sharp teeth. Casey runs in at this moment and they both run into 
the pool room. The creature follows them. It dives into the pool and 
chases them as they run along the side. It gets to the end of the pool 
near Stokely.

CASEY
Look out, Stokes!!!

One tentacle grabs Stokely's legs, tripping her. Her chin smashes on 
the ground, blood spurting everywhere. she is then dragged into the 
pool with the creature.

CASEY
Stokes! 

He gets a pool cleaner net and runs to the side of the pool trying to 
throw it to Stokely.
Underwater Stokely tries to get away from the beast that is dominating 
her. She manages to get to the surface and grabs a hold of the net 
Casey had thrown in and he pulls her to safety. They both run into the 
boys locker room. The creature slowly morphs back into the form of 
Mary-Beth who swims to the end of the pool, naked.
Casey and Stokley separate to hide better. Zeke walks into the locker 
room.

ZEKE
Hello?


STOKELY (sees Zeke)
Zeke! I'm over here.


MARY-BETH (from behind a dark corner, still naked)
Watch out, it's her! 


STOKELY
Zeke, don't believe her. (pointing to Mary-Beth) It's her!

Zeke twirls around, confused.

MARY-BETH
She attacked me, please Zeke.


ZEKE
What's going on here, Mary-Beth?


STOKELY (voice cracks)
Zeke, it's her.


MARY-BETH
She's lyin', she's trying to fake you out. We don't know what she is. 
Gay? Straight? Alien? 


ZEKE
First of all, answer me this, Mary-Beth... Why are you naked?

Marybeth starts to walk closer to Zeke, revealing her breasts.

MARY-BETH
Does it bother you, Zeke? My body? I'm getting used to it myself. 


ZEKE
I saw you take the test. 


MARY-BETH
Oh Zeke. How the hell can you be sure what you saw? It was sweet of you 
to bond with me...

We see a flashback of how she fooled him and the others. A film covers 
her nostrils, then her finger slithers over the bottom of the capsule 
knocking all the scat out onto the floor. She then pretends to sniff 
the scat.

MARY-BETH
... to be nice to me...was sweet. Will it work again baby? Do you like 
what you see?

Suddenly, Stokely grabs Zeke. Her face is crawling underneath. She 
tries to bite him, to infest him with the alien. Luckily, Casey grabs 
her and throws her into a fence-enclosed storage area which stored the 
football equipment. Zeke throws Casey some scat.

ZEKE
Take this!


CASEY
For Mary-Beth?


ZEKE
Sniff it!


CASEY
You're out of your fuckin mind!


ZEKE
I'm not taking your shit. I leave for five minutes and when I come back 
everyone's a fucking alien. Don't make me fucking Men-In-Black your 
ass, you're gonna fuckin sniff it!

Casey sniffs it, nothing happens to him.

CASEY
Happy now? 

They run away from the creatured Mary-Beth. Casey tries to keep up with 
Zeke, but he's having harmful effects from the scat. He sits against a 
locker.

CASEY
Fuck, I'm seeing two of everything!

Suddenly there's a scream and Zeke flies over some aisles, is thrown 
head-first into a locker and falls to the floor unconsious. Casey 
rushes over to him and when Zeke doesn't wake up, he runs away to hide. 
He stops briefly by the cage Stokely is in. She grabs his hair from 
inside the fence links holding him.

STOKELY
He's over here!

Casey rips away from her grasp leaving her with a handful of hair. The 
creature morphs back into the form of Marybeth.

MARY-BETH (evilly playful)
Caaaassseeey...Come out, come out where ever you are. 

She walks through the aisles as she talks very calmly.

MARY-BETH
You know in my world Casey there were limitless oceans as far as the 
eye can see. Beautiful huh? Till it started to dry out. So I escaped, 
came here, and I met you, all of you, and all of you were different 
from the others. 

Casey makes his way to Zeke and grabs some scat.

CASEY (to unconscious Zeke)
Thanks,buddy.


MARY-BETH
You were lost and lonely, just like me. And I thought that maybe I 
could give you a taste of my world. A world without anger, without 
fear, without attitude. Where the underachiever goes home at night to 
parents that care. The jock can be smart, the ugly duckling beautiful, 
and the class wuss doesn't have to live in terror. The new girl - well 
- the new girl she can just fit right in with anybody. people who are 
just like her. You see Casey, even Mary-Beth's feelings can be hurt by 
a bunch of pathetic, lost, little outcasts who truly believe that their 
disaffected lonely life is the only way they can survive. I can make 
you a part of something so special Casey, so perfect, so 
fearless....Don't you want that, Casey? (peers around a corner into an 
empty aisle she thought Casey was in)


CASEY (shouts from somewhere)
I'd rather be afraid.


MARY-BETH
Fine. Alright. Have it your way. Cause this is where your land of 
fiction gets it right. We win. End of story. 

She turns back into the large creature and starts to knock down locker 
by locker. Casey runs out into the gym, waits for the creature to  show 
up and then pushes the button that retracts the bleachers.  He then 
runs through the bleachers as they close, the creature following. He 
gets to the end but the creature doesnt make it. The bleachers close on 
it. Only its head is out right in front of Casey. Casey gets the scat 
out of his pocket, and holds it up, preparing to strike.

CASEY
Guaranteed to jack you up.

He plunges the scat into the creatures eye. It squeals in pain, 
shooting the small parasites into Casey's face as a last act. They 
squirm into his face as he screams. Finally the creature dies and the 
leech-like creatures fall from his face and onto the ground. He sinks 
to the ground.

CASEY
You wouldn't have liked it here anyway.

Casey gets up and walks back into the locker room, as the creature 
dries up. He walks past the cage Stokely is in. The leech-like things 
that were beside her, dry up. He shakes her awake.

CASEY
Stokes... Stokely... are you... you?


STOKELY
I think so. I hope so.

They hug. Suddenly, they're startled as Zeke crashes into the chain-
link fence that makes up the cage.

ZEKE
Is it over? 


CASEY
Yeah. 

They all get out of the locker room.

Scene 38

Setting
ONE MONTH LATER
Life has turned back to normal at Herrington High. On the field, during 
practice, Coach Willis is the usual hard ass he always was and all the 
students are back to normal. Well almost... We see a football player 
take off his helmet. It's Zeke. He lights a cigarette.

COACH
Hey, Zeke, move your ass! Just because you're the new kid doesn't mean 
we're gonna cut you any slack, you hear me?! Now put out that butt and 
get on the pitch!

Stan stands looking over a fence towards the football team. Stokely 
walks up to him and puts her arm around him. Her normally gothic outfit 
has transformed into a flowered dress.

STOKELY
When do you think they're gonna find a new story? Haven't they milked 
our little high school invasion to death?

She stares over to a reporter.

STAN
I don't know. (he smiles)


STOKELY
No regrets? 


STAN
None whatsoever. 

He smiles and they kiss.
Meanwhile, Delilah approaches Casey who is busy taking a picture of a 
butterfly. She drops a bunch of magazines with his picture on the cover 
onto the ground in front of him, including the school paper that she 
wrote with an article on him...front cover.

DELILAH
So how does it feel to be a hero?


CASEY
It's alright... He stands up.


CASEY
...I guess.  I dunno, its... different.

She looks over his shoulder and notices news reporters heading their 
way.

DELILAH
Your fan club's here again.


CASEY
Network or local?


DELILAH
Both... You know, you can be pretty cool sometimes. 


CASEY
Things sure have changed, haven't they? 

He puts his arms around her and they kiss. School has turned back to 
normal, and the jocks have found a new victim for the flagpole.
THE END-Credits Roll

