year	1990
imdb score	6.9
meta score	N/A
genre	Adventure
genre	Animation
genre	Crime
genre	Drama
genre	Family
genre	Fantasy
genre	Mystery
keyword	eagle
keyword	boy
keyword	poacher
keyword	rescue
keyword	australia
keyword	kangaroo
keyword	albatross
keyword	mouse
keyword	trap
keyword	new york city
keyword	tire
keyword	marriage proposal
keyword	egg
keyword	garage
keyword	animal lover
keyword	shotgun
keyword	cynicism
keyword	feather
keyword	feeling cold
keyword	nest
keyword	poaching
keyword	clothes line
keyword	talking animal
keyword	pajamas
keyword	echidna
keyword	bad luck
keyword	cane
keyword	box
keyword	fly
keyword	horse whispering
keyword	anthropomorphism
keyword	hope
keyword	wild boar
keyword	falling from height
keyword	firefly
keyword	shoelace
keyword	united nations
keyword	pit
keyword	courage
keyword	tree stump
keyword	diamond ring
keyword	kidnapping
keyword	airplane
keyword	power of redemption
keyword	abandoned mine
keyword	intelligence
keyword	sequel
keyword	greed
keyword	stupidity
keyword	truck
keyword	hospital
keyword	chainsaw
keyword	checkers
keyword	key
keyword	restaurant
keyword	vise
keyword	lizard
keyword	platypus
keyword	australian bush
keyword	presumed dead
keyword	snake
keyword	radio
keyword	falling over a cliff
keyword	marshall islands
keyword	falling into water
keyword	razorback
keyword	rejected lover
keyword	chase
keyword	waterfall
keyword	danger
keyword	light
keyword	australian outback
keyword	pocket knife
keyword	salamander
keyword	shoe
keyword	escape attempt
keyword	wombat
keyword	anthropomorphic animal
keyword	romantic rivalry
keyword	board
keyword	map
keyword	picking a lock
keyword	backpack
keyword	rock
keyword	1990s
keyword	single mother
keyword	environmental
keyword	dancing
keyword	crocodile
keyword	engagement ring
keyword	military base
keyword	rope
keyword	listening to music
keyword	koala
keyword	comfort
keyword	cage
keyword	riding a bird
keyword	severed spine
keyword	imitation
keyword	disney animated feature
keyword	log
keyword	cliff
keyword	based on book
keyword	
cast	Bob Newhart	Bernard
cast	Eva Gabor	Miss Bianca
cast	John Candy	Wilbur
cast	Tristan Rogers	Jake
cast	Adam Ryen	Cody
cast	George C. Scott	McLeach
cast	Douglas Seale	Krebbs
cast	Frank Welker	Joanna
cast	Bernard Fox	Chairman / Doctor
cast	Peter Firth	Red
cast	Billy Barty	Baitmouse
cast	Ed Gilbert	Francois
cast	Carla Meyer	Faloo / Mother
cast	Russi Taylor	Nurse Mouse
cast	Wayne Robson	Frank
cast	Peter Greenwood	Radio Announcer / Airplane Captain
