year	1967
imdb score	8.2
meta score	N/A
genre	Crime
genre	Drama
keyword	prison
keyword	escape
keyword	prisoner
keyword	guts
keyword	authority
keyword	chain
keyword	parking meter
keyword	deliberate cruelty
keyword	sadist
keyword	pig
keyword	prison escape
keyword	failure to communicate
keyword	aimlessness
keyword	death of hero
keyword	prison break
keyword	death
keyword	eating contest
keyword	sadistic warden
keyword	snake
keyword	mullet haircut
keyword	bloodhound
keyword	chain gang
keyword	antihero
keyword	inspiring story
keyword	torn picture
keyword	smile
keyword	fugitive
keyword	famous score
keyword	vandalism
keyword	punishment
keyword	death of title character
keyword	shootout
keyword	talking to god
keyword	friendship
keyword	atrocity
keyword	drunkenness
keyword	confused boy
keyword	dead dog
keyword	prison guard
keyword	arrogance
keyword	barbed wire
keyword	loss of mother
keyword	atheist
keyword	hard boiled egg
keyword	attitude
keyword	sunglasses
keyword	nickname
keyword	main character shot
keyword	jesus statuette
keyword	banjo
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	running away
keyword	traffic signal
keyword	isolation cell
keyword	egg
keyword	threat
keyword	forced labor
keyword	against the system
keyword	contest
keyword	conflicted hero
keyword	boxing match
keyword	social commentary
keyword	outsider
keyword	bet
keyword	photograph
keyword	abuse
keyword	toil
keyword	freeze frame
keyword	stubbornness
keyword	mother son relationship
keyword	hit in the face
keyword	shower
keyword	shovel
keyword	mullet
keyword	rebellion
keyword	repeated scene
keyword	tough guy
keyword	stealing a car
keyword	anti conformity
keyword	escape from prison
keyword	survivor
keyword	hard labor
keyword	bound in chains
keyword	famous line
keyword	wager
keyword	bluffing
keyword	death of protagonist
keyword	confrontation
keyword	car wash
keyword	tracking
keyword	dog
keyword	betting
keyword	rural setting
keyword	burp
keyword	anti hero
keyword	main character dies
keyword	rebelliousness
keyword	endurance
keyword	tiredness
keyword	bare chested male
keyword	deep south
keyword	belch
keyword	boxing
keyword	sweat
keyword	fistfight
keyword	corporal punishment
keyword	dignity
keyword	questioning authority
keyword	name change
keyword	against the odds
keyword	freedom
keyword	heat
keyword	dying friend
keyword	jumping into water
keyword	tarmac
keyword	upskirt
keyword	axe
keyword	underwear
keyword	christ allegory
keyword	budding friendship
keyword	exhaustion
keyword	character repeating someone else's dialogue
keyword	poker
keyword	southern u.s.
keyword	magazine
keyword	chili powder
keyword	heroic death
keyword	alcoholism
keyword	purpose in life
keyword	drifter
keyword	gratuitous shooting of an animal
keyword	escape attempt
keyword	death of mother
keyword	based on novel
keyword	character name in title
keyword	title spoken by character
cast	Paul Newman	Luke
cast	George Kennedy	Dragline
cast	J.D. Cannon	Society Red
cast	Lou Antonio	Koko
cast	Robert Drivas	Loudmouth Steve
cast	Strother Martin	Captain
cast	Jo Van Fleet	Arletta
cast	Clifton James	Carr
cast	Morgan Woodward	Boss Godfrey
cast	Luke Askew	Boss Paul
cast	Marc Cavell	Rabbitt
cast	Richard Davalos	Blind Dick
cast	Robert Donner	Boss Shorty
cast	Warren Finnerty	Tattoo
cast	Dennis Hopper	Babalugats
cast	John McLiam	Boss Keen
cast	Wayne Rogers	Gambler
cast	Harry Dean Stanton	Tramp
cast	Charles Tyner	Boss Higgins
cast	Ralph Waite	Alibi
cast	Anthony Zerbe	Dog Boy
cast	Buck Kartalian	Dynamite
cast	Joy Harmon	The Girl
cast	Joe Don Baker	Fixer
cast	James Bradley	
cast	James Gammon	Sleepy
cast	Norman Goodwins	Stupid blonde
cast	Chuck Hicks	Chief
cast	Rance Howard	Sheriff
cast	James Jeter	Wickerman
cast	Kim Kahana	Convict
cast	Robert Luster	Jabo
cast	Donn Pearce	Sailor
cast	John Pearce	John
cast	Cyril 'Chips' Robinson	Ben
cast	Eddie Rosson	Luke's Nephew
cast	Rush Williams	Patrolman
