URBAN LEGEND 




EXT. ROAD - NIGHT - RAINING


The only vehicle on the road is a land rover. It turns a corner.


INT. LAND ROVER


MICHELLE MANCINI, a college student at Pendleton University listens to 
the radio. Michelle has black, short cropped hair.


          SASHA
       (from radio)
You're listening to "Under the covers" with Sasha, on WZAB, the voice 
of Pendleton University. We're still talking to?


          JANE
Jane. Sophomore. Hi. 


EXT. ROAD


The land rover continues down the road.


          SASHA
       (voice-over)
So, you've been stealing your roommate's birth control pills?


          JANE
     (voice-over)
Borrowing, okay? She never noticed before because I've been replacing 
them with baby aspirin.


          SASHA
       (voice-over)
With what?


          JANE
     (voice-over)
Baby aspirin. Looks exactly the same. Anyways, now she's pregnant and 
has to leave school.


INT. LAND ROVER

          JANE
        (cont'd)
And how the hell am I going to get a new roommate this late in the 
semester?


Michelle reaches into the back seat.


EXT. ROAD


A car comes at Michelle's car.


INT. LAND ROVER


Michelle reaches for a tape when she hears the car honk its horn! 
Michelle grabs the steering wheel and swerves out of the way.


          MICHELLE
Oh my God.


          SASHA
Next caller.


Michelle puts in a tape.


          SINGER
When I get a little bit tired of listening to the sound of tears--     
             


          MICHELLE
         (singing along)
Turn around. Every now and then I get a little bit nervous that all the 
best years have gone by, turn around. Every now and then I get a little 
bit terrified but then I see the look in your eyes. Turn around, bright 
eyes. Every now and then I fall apart. Turn around, bright eyes.


EXT. ROAD


Michelle's land rover passes a brightly lit, crowded gas station.


          MICHELLE
          (voice-over)
Every now and then I fall apart. And I need you now tonight. More than 
ever. And if you'll only hold onto me tight, we'll be holding on 
forever.


EXT. ROAD


The land rover speeds by.


INT. LAND ROVER


The rain starts to come pouring down again.


          MICHELLE
Oh no.


She turns on the windshield wipers. She hears a beeping sign and looks 
down. The pointer is on the E.


          MICHELLE
Oh shit.


She looks out the window and spots a small gas station.


          MICHELLE
Please make it.


EXT. ROAD/GAS STATION


CLOSE ON:


a sign that reads "B & B Gas." As the land rover pulls into a pump, it 
rolls over a cord that activates the service bell. Michelle waits for 
somebody to come. When nobody does, she honks the horn three times. 


She looks around and sees a lot of junk cars everywhere. She honks the 
horn again. Michelle turns away from her window and looks straight 
ahead. Suddenly, the GAS STATION ATTENDANT bangs against the window. 
Michelle gasps. The attendant has long hair and talks slowly and 
stutters a lot.  Michelle is frightened by him.


          ATTENDANT
R-r run out of gas?


Michelle reaches into her purse and pulls out a credit card. She rolls 
down the window a crack and sticks it out.


          MICHELLE
Yeah. Fill it up.


The attendant takes the credit card. He moves over to a pump.


          MICHELLE
Freak show.


The attendant grabs the hose and unscrews her gas tank. He sticks the 
hose into the tank. He looks into her backseat. 


The attendant starts heading back to the gas station. He looks back at 
Michelle and starts to run. Michelle waits while her car fills up.


CLOSE ON:


the numbers on the pump as they roll by.


Michelle looks out her window, then at the gas station.


CLOSE ON:


the numbers as they continue to climb higher and higher.


The attendant comes running out of the gas station and over to 
Michelle's land rover.


          ATTENDANT
M-m-m miss, c-could you come inside for a m-minute?


          MICHELLE
Is there a problem?


The attendant holds up her credit card.


          ATTENDANT
Credit c-card c-company's on the ph-phone. They wanna sp-speak with 
you. 


          MICHELLE
Okay. Hold on a minute.


The attendant backs away.


          MICHELLE
Shit.


She grabs a can of pepper spray and puts it inside her jacket. She 
throws on her jacket and gets out of the land rover. 


EXT. GAS STATION


She pulls out her automatic door lock and presses a button. All the 
doors lock with a beep. She jogs into the gas station.


INT. GAS STATION


Michelle looks around while the attendant closes and locks the door. 
Michelle heads over for the phone. She picks it up. 


          MICHELLE
Hello?


All she hears is a busy signal. The attendant moves toward her and 
grabs her.


          MICHELLE
No! Don't touch me!


She pushes him away and runs over to the door. She pushes on it but it 
won't open. The attendant grabs her.


          MICHELLE
Let me go!


She grabs her pepper spray and sprays him full in the face. He falls to 
the ground, moaning. Michelle runs over to the phone and throws it 
through the window. She runs over to the window. The attendant starts 
to get to his feet. Michelle climbs onto the window.


          MICHELLE
No!


She falls out backward through the smashed window.


EXT. GAS STATION


          MICHELLE
No!


The attendant stands up.


          ATTENDANT
No! Stop!


Michelle runs for her car. She tries to unlock it with her automatic 
door lock. The car alarm goes off. The attendant has made it to the 
door, unlocks it, and throws it open.



          ATTENDANT
Stop!


Michelle runs over to her car and pulls open the door. She gets in and 
slams the door shut. The attendant slams his hands down on the hood.


          ATTENDANT
Stop!


Michelle puts her foot down and the car goes forward, knocking the 
attendant down. He stands up, watching as the land rover speeds away.


          ATTENDANT
S-Somebody's in the backseat!


His words send chills through the night.


EXT. ROAD


The land rover speeds away. We hear the tape playing.


INT. LAND ROVER


Michelle is crying. There are lighting blasts that light up the 
backseat. Suddenly, a dark form appears, rising from the back seat. 
With another lightning blast we see a double-headed axe in the shape's 
hands. 


          MICHELLE
        (singing, crying)
I get a little bit worried. Turn around, bright eyes.


She looks into her rear view mirror. She gasps and turns around, right 
as the shape swings the axe. It connects with her neck.


EXT. LAND ROVER


The axe comes breaking through the window, shattering it. Blood flies 
out the window, mixing with the rain.


The axe slowly fades from view. 


FADE TO:


EXT. PENDLETON UNIVERSITY - NIGHT - LATER


A STUDENT walks up a long flight of stairs, heading for a huge dorm. 
The camera pans over to a window on the third floor of a building. This 
is the radio station.


          SASHA
You're "Under the covers" with Sasha on WZAB, the voice of Pendleton 
University.


INT. RADIO STATION/SASHA'S ROOM


A room with a table in the middle. Mikes surround it. SASHA, a girl 
with blond hair, stands next to the table.


          SASHA
Caller?


          WOMAN
Hello?


Sasha waves to her PRODUCER, who is in the room adjacent to the one 
she's in.


          SASHA
I'm right here.


The producer holds up a card with the word "Felicia" on it. Sasha peers 
through the rectangular window dividing the two rooms.


          SASHA
Felicia. What can I help you with?


          FELICIA
Well, it's kind of embarrassing.


          SASHA
Spit it out, Felicia.


          FELICIA
That's the problem. I mean, I didn't.


Sasha sits down in a chair and starts caressing a mike.


          SASHA
Ah. Had a little frat boy protein shake, did ya?


          FELICIA
I feel so sick. I mean, I can feel them swimming inside me. Should I 
get my stomach pumped or something?


Sasha makes the universal sign of craziness.


          SASHA
Felicia, the only thing you need to get pumped is the air out of your 
head. 


The producer nods his head in agreement.


          SASHA
           (cont'd)
First, let me congratulate you on your choice of sexual activity, 
because the world is not ready for you to reproduce. Second, did you 
know that ingestion of major bodily fluids is a safe sex no-no?


          FELICIA
Really?


          SASHA
Really. My suggestion is that you down a couple of shots of Pepto, and 
next time get away from the volcano before it erupts.


CUT TO:


INT. STUDENT UNION - SAME TIME


A large, spacious room where students come to relax.


          SASHA
       (voice-over)
That wraps up another night. This is Sasha, signing off for WZAB.


NATALIE SIMON, a cute girl with long, flowing red hair, grabs two cup 
of coffee and heads toward two couches, each facing each other.


          NATALIE
           (grinning)
Parker, how does Sasha come up with that stuff?


Pan down to PARKER, a guy with brown hair. He's laying down on the 
couch, reading a magazine.


          PARKER
Devours every issue of Cosmo. Calls it her bible.


Natalie sits on the other couch. She hands her cup of coffee to BRENDA, 
Natalie's best friend. Brenda has curly brown hair. 


CUT TO:


PAUL, a handsome guy with brown hair as he walks over to the bar. He 
holds a newspaper in his hand. 


Brenda grabs Natalie's knee to get her attention. Natalie looks over 
and sees Paul. From the look on Brenda's face, we can tell she is 
attracted to him.


          BRENDA
So, Parker, finish your story about Stanley Hall.


Parker sits up. He throws the magazine on the table in between the two 
couches.


          PARKER
Right. So this guy, a professor here twenty five years ago.


          BRENDA
What did he teach?


          PARKER
I don't know. Physics or some shit.


Paul, over at the bar, answers Brenda's question.


          PAUL
Abnormal psychology. You know, if you wanna tell the story right.


Parker is obviously mad that he was interrupted.


          PARKER
Not the point of the story, paperboy! But fine, abnormal psych it is. 
Any who, this guy, he just flips out. Goes completely berserk, grabs a 
hunting knife...


Parker grabs a knife off of the table.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
Strolls into Stanley Hall, and bangs on every door.


Parker bangs on the table for effect.


          PARKER
And every student who answered their door...


Paul pays the man at the bar and slowly walks away, eyeing Parker.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
He takes the knife and he cuts their throat, ear to ear. Yeah. Does 
away with an entire floor before finally stabbing himself straight 
through the heart! Oh!


Parker pretends to stab himself in the heart.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
And thus, the annual Omega Sigma Phi bash.


Parker falls back onto the couch. Brenda is disgusted.


          BRENDA
You have a party to commemorate a massacre?


          PARKER
You betcha. 


Paul walks over and sets his bag down.


          PAUL
Parker, let me get this straight. When this happened twenty five years 
ago, you were a.... sophomore?


Paul sits down in a chair next to the two couches.


          PARKER
That's funny.


          PAUL
Well, it's the same bullshit story you hear on every campus in the 
Northeast.


          NATALIE
Thank you. I mean, where's the proof?


          PARKER
You see, Pendleton knew damn well that enrollment would suffer 
permanently. So, in cahoots with the national news media and other 
powerful sources--


          PAUL
Like Lee Harvey Oswald? Or was it Jack Ruby? No, no. I know who it was. 
It was that F.B.I. guy who used to prance around in women's clothing. 
He was the guy who covered it all up, huh?


Paul's pager BEEPS. He checks it.


          PAUL
Oop! That's the newsroom. I gotta go. Got a life.


Paul stands up and grabs his bag.


          PARKER
Hey, Paul?


          PAUL
Yeah.


          PARKER
If there's another E. Coli crisis in the cafeteria, I want you to have 
the biggest, juiciest burger on me.


He hands Paul a wad of cash. Paul takes it out and starts to walk away.


          PAUL
I'd love to. That article almost won me the student Pulitzer.


          BRENDA
Bye, Paul.


          PARKER
        (mockingly)
"Bye, Paul." Know what his problem is? He can't stand any big story 
without his byline on it.


Parker stands up and leaves. 


          BRENDA
He is such a babe.


She turns to face Natalie.


          BRENDA
All right, did it seem like he was giving me the eye?


          NATALIE
Uh, it was probably the mirror behind us.


They both turn and look at the mirror behind them.


          BRENDA
Oh, damn. Should I ask him out anyway?


She giggles.


EXT. STANLEY HALL


A gigantic, boarded up dorm. It's very run-down, considering nobody has 
lived in it for over twenty five years. Brenda and Natalie walk toward 
it, conversing.


          BRENDA
Okay, if Parker's story is true, and all those kids were murdered here, 
then why haven't they torn down Stanley Hall?


          NATALIE
Because the story's not true. It's just a legend.


          BRENDA
If it's just a legend, then what's the problem?


          NATALIE
I won't encourage this.


          BRENDA
Come on, Natalie. Cut me a little slack. This is half the reason I 
transferred here. 


Brenda is overcome with an urge for danger. She claps her hands 
together.


          BRENDA
What exactly happens when I say "Bloody Mary" five times?


          NATALIE
The person standing next to you wonders how you got into college in the 
first place. Come on!


          BRENDA
You're scared, Natalie!


          NATALIE
Yeah, right!


          BRENDA
Then come on and let's do this. Come on!


Brenda grabs hold of Natalie's arm and they both race toward Stanley 
Hall's arched entryway.


          BRENDA
Time to raise the dead!


          NATALIE
I can't believe this.


They race up the steps and stop in front of the boarded up door. There 
is a small, square hole in the board.


          NATALIE
Okay. Okay.


Brenda starts to recite the words while Natalie looks on with 
amusement.


          BRENDA
Bloody Mary. 


They share a look and giggle.


VIEW


from behind them.


          BRENDA
Bloody Mary.


VIEW


of their front.


          BRENDA
Bloody Mary.


CLOSE ON:


The small hole in the boards.


          BRENDA
             (o.s.)
Bloody Mary.


CLOSE ON:


Natalie and Brenda.


          BRENDA
Bloody--


          NATALIE
            (quickly)
Bloody Mary.


Brenda looks at Natalie and sighs. There's no response from the undead.


          NATALIE
Fine, no answer. Maybe they're screening.


          BRENDA
God.


Suddenly, a male voice is heard. Soft, but rising in sound. The voice 
is SCREAMING! It's coming from the hole in the board! More and more 
screams emanate from the hole.


Brenda and Natalie start to back away from the door.


          BRENDA
Let's go Natalie.


          NATALIE
Yeah. 


They continue to back away slowly from the screams of pain and agony. 


CLOSE ON:


The hole as more screams emit from it.


CUT TO:


Brenda and Natalie as they back up into...


DAMON BROOKS!


They scream and turn to face Damon, who holds a flashlight. He has 
bleached blond hair.


          DAMON
You called?


          NATALIE
She was trying to summon the dead, Damon, not frat boys with badly 
grown facial hair.


Brenda laughs while Damon rubs the few hairs on his chin.


          DAMON
It took me a month to grow this.


          BRENDA
Is this what you do with your free time, Damon? Hang out here alone in 
the dark waiting to scare people like a total freak?


          DAMON
Only when I see two losers standing in front of this old relic trying 
to summon the dead. Anyhow, I'll see you two in class tomorrow.


Damon walks down the steps and heads away from them.


          BRENDA
        (calling out)
Unfortunately!


          NATALIE
See ya.


They begin to walk down the steps.


          BRENDA
Jerk.


Brenda looks at Natalie and giggles.


          NATALIE
God. You know, he was half way normal before pledge week.


EXT. NATALIE'S DORM - LATER


Natalie walks through the arched passageway leading to the door of her 
dorm.  Her footsteps echo in the tiny space.


INT. NATALIE'S DORM/DORM HALL


Natalie closes the door and turns around, only to bump into


THE JANITOR!


She gasps. The janitor just looks at her, no expression showing on his 
face. He just holds his mop.


          NATALIE
Sorry.


She walks past him. He continues to mop as Natalie makes her way 
through the giant hall to her dorm room.


CLOSE ON:


Natalie's door. Her hand comes into view holding a key. She puts it in 
the lock and turns. There's a SNAP! as the door unlocks. She starts to 
open the door.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


CLOSE ON:


The door. Natalie opens it to the sound of rock music. She closes the 
door and turns on the light.


CLOSE ON:


TOSH, Natalie's Goth roommate, and Tosh's BOYFRIEND, who, at the 
moment, is on top of her, naked. Tosh is pissed off by the intrusion.


          TOSH
Shut off the fucking light!


CUT TO:


Natalie.


          NATALIE
Sorry.


She flips the switch down. The room goes dark.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM - LATER


Tosh and her boyfriend are all over each other, moans of pleasure 
coming from Tosh. We PAN over to Natalie, lying in her bed, listening 
to her headphones. But the music does little to block out the sounds of 
Tosh and her boyfriend. She sighs as the moaning continues.


EXT. PENDLETON COLLEGE - MORNING


The sun has just begun to rise as students wake and head for their 
morning classes. The camera slowly pans over to an old, Victorian style 
building. It's about five or six stories high, with a tower on one 
side.


          PROFESSOR
          (o.c.)
Last week we discussed folklore as a gauge for the values of the 
society that created them.


INT. LECTURE HALL


Professor WILLIAM WEXLER, a nerdish man in his late forties, early 
fifties, stands in front of a large group of students, discussing urban 
legends.


CUT TO:


Damon. He sighs, bored with the class.


CUT TO:


Wexler. He stands on a giant stage, a desk cluttered with papers behind 
him.


          WEXLER
Today, today, we get more specific.


CUT TO:


Natalie and Brenda, watching Wexler. Parker sits behind them, eating. 
Damon sits next to Parker.


CUT BACK TO:


Wexler. He uses a control to activate a slide projector that is 
stationed at the very back of the large auditorium. The image of a 
woman sitting on a couch with a phone in her hand appears on the wall 
behind Wexler. On closer inspection, we see a man standing on the dark 
steps, a cell phone in hand. It is a very threatening picture.


          WEXLER
A baby sitter receives menacing phone calls. And upon investigating 
them, she realizes that they are originating from an upstairs bedroom, 
the very room where she's left the children under her care to sleep.


Wexler presses the button and the image changes to a close up of the 
man.


          WEXLER
Now, who's heard this before? Hmm?


Most of the students raise their hands.


CUT TO:


Brenda and Natalie.


          BRENDA
Well, that really happened to a girl in my hometown.


          WEXLER
          (chuckling)
Oh, yes, I'm sure it did. I'm sure most of you grew up thinking this 
happened to girls in, in all your hometowns, but it didn't. 


          BRENDA
         (to Natalie)
It did.


          WEXLER
            (cont'd)
You see, the baby sitter and the man upstairs is what we call an urban 
legend.


Parker nods his head while Wexler talks.


          WEXLER
            (cont'd)
Contemporary folklore passed on as a true story. There are variations 
of this one going back to the 1960's, all of them containing the same 
cultural admonition: Young women, mind your children well, or harm will 
come your way.


Wexler stops, building up the tension. But then, his watch alarm begins 
beeping musically. He glances at it.


          WEXLER
            (to class)
Oh. Excuse me.


It continues to beep and Brenda laughs. Wexler turns to face her. 
Natalie is trying to control her laughter, but Brenda is laughing 
hysterically.


          WEXLER
Something funny you might care to share with the rest of us?


          BRENDA
      (through laughs)
No, I was just saying, like, the cultural admonition is don't babysit?


The class laughs at this. Wexler doesn't find it funny at all.


          WEXLER
Why don't you, uh, come up here, and uh, volunteer for my little 
experiment, hmm?


          DAMON
Yeah, that's a great idea.


Brenda hesitates, making Wexler angry.


          WEXLER
Now, young lady!


          BRENDA
Coming.


She gets up and starts to walk to the stage. Damon calls after her in a 
very Austin Powers like voice.


          DAMON
Yeah, baby, yeah.


          WEXLER
Don't worry, you'll probably survive.


When Brenda gets up on the stage, Wexler tosses her a bag of candy.


          WEXLER
Had those before?


          BRENDA
Yeah, they're Pop Rocks. They crackle in your mouth.


          WEXLER
Eat some.


          BRENDA
Okay.


Brenda opens the bag and pours some of the Pop Rocks in her mouth.


CUT TO:


Natalie, watching intently.


CUT BACK TO:


Brenda and Wexler. Brenda is chewing on the candy, which makes a 
crackling sound. Wexler picks a coke off his desk and opens it. He 
holds it out to her.


          WEXLER
Thirsty?


Brenda shakes her head and backs away, frightened.


          WEXLER
What's wrong? Something you might have heard about mixing Pop Rocks and 
soda?


CUT TO:


Natalie, grinning. She's  heard this story before.


CUT BACK TO:


Brenda and Wexler.


          BRENDA     
Well, supposedly, your stomach and intestines, everything bursts.


          WEXLER
Really? Anyone you know die this way?


Brenda nods.


          BRENDA
Mikey. From the cereal commercial. "Give it to Mikey. He'll eat 
anything."


          WEXLER
Oh.


He picks up the control and hits a button. The picture changes to show 
a young boy eating cereal.


          WEXLER
You mean him?


CUT TO:


Parker. 


          PARKER
         (mockingly)

Mikey likes it.


The class laughs.


CUT BACK TO:


Brenda and Wexler. He gives Parker a disgusted look.


          BRENDA
Yeah.


He hits a button and the picture changes to an adult man grinning.


          WEXLER
What if I told you that this is Mikey, alive and well, and working as 
an ad executive in New York City? Would you drink some then?


Brenda looks at the picture, then at Wexler, not knowing if she should 
do it. She doesn't want her insides to burst. Brenda sighs. From way in 
the back, Damon stands up and raises his hand.


          DAMON
I'll do it.


Parker points at Damon as he makes his way up to the stage. Parker 
leans forward while Natalie's jaw drops, amazed.


Damon walks up to the stage and grabs a bag of Pop Rocks from off the 
desk. He opens it and pours some into his mouth.


          DAMON
Oh, yeah.


Wexler hands him the coke.


          WEXLER
Your soda.


Damon holds the soda up for the class to see, then drinks it. Nothing 
happens.


          WEXLER
Voila. Still alive.


CUT TO:


Parker and Natalie. They smile, relieved.


CUT BACK TO:


Wexler, Brenda, and Damon.


          WEXLER
As I said, this story is nothing but an urban legend.


Damon looks like he's about to throw up. He puts his arm on Wexler's 
shoulder for support. Spit begins to come out of his mouth. 


CUT TO:


Natalie and Parker. They're relived faces turn to horror as they watch 
Damon suffer.


CUT TO:


The stage. Damon begins to fall to the ground, still clutching Wexler's 
shoulder. Brenda is starting to freak out. 


          WEXLER
         (exasperated)
Brooks.


Damon falls down, and begins to roll down the steps. Brenda screams and 
some students stand up to get a better view.


          BRENDA
Professor!


Wexler just walks over to his desk and watches.


Damon lays on the ground, clutching his stomach. Moans of pain escape 
his lips.


          PARKER
He's gonna explode!


Brenda SCREAMS!


          PARKER
Someone call 9-1-1!


He turns to another STUDENT.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
Go!


The student turns and runs.


More colored spit and vomit pour from Damon's mouth. Students begin to 
stand up, afraid. Natalie has an expression of pure terror on her face. 
Then, all of a sudden, Damon stops. He doesn't move. His eyes close. 
All the students expect to see him explode, but then...


His eyes open and he grins. Damon looks at Brenda and chuckles.


          DAMON
Ahh.


Brenda throws the bag of Pop Rocks at Damon. Natalie sighs and Parker 
throws his hands up, grinning.


          WEXLER
Thank you for your help, Mr. Brooks.


          PARKER
Brilliant. He's brilliant.


EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS - LATER - AFTERNOON


Brenda and Natalie are walking, Brenda holding a bottle of water.


          BRENDA
Oh, he is such a moron.


          NATALIE
Yeah, but who fell for it?


Brenda laughs at her own stupidity.


Up ahead, REESE, the African American campus cop, is grabbing 
newspapers from all the students. Dean ADAMS looks on. Dean Adams is in 
his fifties with a very sour look and cold demeanor.


          BRENDA
Hey, what's going on?


Reese grabs a newspaper from a student.


          REESE
Excuse me, young man. Can't read these.


          FEMALE STUDENT
She had just left campus.


          MALE STUDENT
A sophomore.


Natalie goes over to a stand and grabs a newspaper. She unfolds it. 


CLOSE ON:


The front page. It has a picture of Michelle Mancini and the words 
"Lunatic on Campus?"


NORMAL VIEW


          BRENDA
She went to Pendleton? I knew I should've gone to N.Y.U. 


Paul comes up behind them.


          PAUL     
Tragic, huh?


They turn and Brenda immediately brightens up.


          BRENDA
Hi, Paul.


          PAUL
Hi.


          NATALIE
Is this true?


          PAUL
I certainly hope so. Otherwise I'm gonna have one hell of a retraction 
on my hands.


His gaze wanders over to where Dean Adams and Reese are collecting all 
the newspapers.


          PAUL
Hey!


He rushes over to them.


          PAUL
What do you think you're doing? You can't come and take every copy 
here.


          DEAN ADAMS
You're the one who wrote this inflammatory piece of rubbish. 


          PAUL
Actually, the factious quotes about being deeply shocked and heartsick, 
are yours, Dean Adams.


          DEAN ADAMS
Let me tell you something, young man. The only lunatic on this campus 
is you. 


          PAUL
I'm flattered.


He holds up a recorder.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
Can I quote you on that?


Dean Adams simply walks away. Reese steps toward Paul.


          REESE
I have a quote for you. U.S. News and World Report named Pendleton the 
safest university in this country. You best believe that I intend to 
keep it that way.


Reese follows Dean Adams.


          PAUL
Thank you, Reese. I'll be sure to stick that in the special school 
safety edition!


Natalie and Brenda start to walk away.


          NATALIE
Let's get out of here.


Paul stops them.


          PAUL
Hold on a second. How about some interviews? You know, "students react 
to the tragedy on campus?"


          BRENDA
         (more than willing)
Okay. I am saddened and moved by the sudden--


          NATALIE
       (interrupting)
This was someone's life. Did you even spend one minute thinking about 
that?


          PAUL
No, I didn't. But because of my story, 3,500 students will. I think 
that's enough to help me sleep at night. 


          NATALIE
Come on, let's go.


She grabs Brenda's arm and starts to lead her away.


          BRENDA
Natalie, what--


Natalie throws the paper in the trash can.


          NEWSCASTER
             (voice-over)
The decapitated body of 20 year old..


INT. STUDENT UNION - LATER


CLOSE ON:


A T.V. A NEWSCASTER stands in front of the gas station where Michelle 
Mancini was killed.


          NEWSCASTER
          (cont'd)
Pendleton student Michelle Mancini was found in her car. Police suspect 
the assailant was probably hiding in the backseat.


CUT TO:


Parker and Sasha, sitting next to each other, listening.


CLOSE ON:


The T.V.


          NEWSCASTER
In the meanwhile, the search continues for Michael McDonnell, the 
proprietor of the gas station where she was last seen. 


CUT TO:


Natalie, watching with interest.


CLOSE ON:


The T.V.


          NEWSCASTER
           (cont'd)
Police are asking anyone with any information to his whereabouts, to 
contact them immediately.  


CUT TO:


Damon. He takes a sip of his coffee.


CLOSE ON:


The T.V.


          NEWSCASTER
          (cont'd)
This is David McAree, reporting live.


CUT TO:


Parker, Damon, Brenda, Natalie, and Sasha.


          PARKER
How horrible. +


          SASHA
Someone told me she was listening to my show when it happened. My voice 
was probably the last thing she heard. Can you imagine?


Brenda leans forward, scared.


          BRENDA
You guys, what if there is a lunatic on campus?


          DAMON
It's fine with me, I'm hitting the half-pipe at Killington this 
weekend.


          BRENDA
Did anybody know her? She roomed in Daly.


          PARKER
No.


          SASHA
No.


Brenda looks over at Natalie. She's far off, distant.


          BRENDA
Hello? Space cadet?


She snaps her fingers in front of Natalie's face. Natalie comes out of 
it.


          NATALIE
Oh, no. I didn't know her.


Brenda nods.


          DAMON
Actually, I did know her.


          SASHA
You did?


          DAMON
Yeah. And I'll miss her too, cause she gave great head.


Sasha and Parker burst out laughing.


          DAMON
You get it? She gave great head?


          PARKER
That's good.


Brenda rolls her eyes.


EXT. DORM - EVENING


The sun is starting to set.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


Tosh is on the Internet, listening to some music and smoking a 
cigarette. The door opens and Natalie walks in. She closes the door. 
Tosh looks at her then back at the computer. She rolls her eyes.


          NATALIE
Hey, Tosh. Sorry about last night.


          TOSH
Yeah? Don't let it happen again.


Natalie bends down, and sees a bottle of pills on the floor. She bends 
down and picks it up.


CLOSE ON:


The bottle. The word "Lithium" is on it in big, bold letters. 


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie walks over to Tosh and hands her the bottle.


          NATALIE     
Here. You dropped these.


Tosh takes the pills, and sets them down. Natalie walks over to the 
phone and picks it up. She gets the busy signal.


          NATALIE
Uh, Tosh, excuse me?


Tosh smiles, and presses a few buttons on the keyboard. She turns the 
music off. She stands up, furious.


          TOSH
It's my phone line too.


Tosh storms out of the room, slamming the door shut.


Natalie sets the phone down on the hook. She presses a few numbers and 
the answering machine comes on.


          BRENDA
        (voice-over)
Hey, it's Brenda. You seemed kinda weird this afternoon. You okay, hon? 
Call me.


Natalie walks over to the closet and takes off her jacket. The machine 
beeps.


          MOM
Natalie, it's Mom. Sweetie, I'm just calling to make sure you're okay.  
Isn't it horrible about Michelle? Please call. Okay? Love you.


Natalie grins and reaches up to a shelf in the closet. Stuck between 
two boxes is a year book. Natalie grabs it and pulls it out. The 
answering machine beeps a few times. 


Natalie walks over to her bed and sits down. She opens the year book 
and starts flipping through the pages. She stops when she comes to a 
picture of the Spirit Squad. We see Natalie standing next to another 
girl. On closer inspection, we see that it is Michelle Mancini.


Natalie looks over at the other page. There's a closeup of Natalie and 
Michelle. Under the picture are the words: Team Captains: Michelle 
Mancini and Natalie Simon. Natalie is quiet, remembering the yells they 
used to do. The voices of the Spirit Squad can be heard shouting. This 
is very hard for Natalie. Suddenly, there's a knock at the door and 
Damon enters.


          DAMON
Hey. I was in the neighborhood, thought I would drop by, see if you 
want to come to the house. Parker said he's gonna pierce Hootie's nose.


Natalie is still very quiet. When she speaks, it has a sad tone.


          NATALIE     
Hootie's a dog.


          DAMON
That's no reason why he can't be hip. 
                                             

          NATALIE     
No, that's okay, Damon.


          DAMON
What's up, Natalie? You all right?


          NATALIE
Yeah, I'm fine.


          DAMON
Look, we don't have to go hang out with a bunch of drunken frat boys. 
We can go some place and talk.


Natalie doesn't know if she wants to.


          NATALIE
Mmmm.


          DAMON
I really don't want this to get out around campus, but I can actually 
be a good listener once in a while. 


Natalie smiles. Damon kinda nods his head and smiles.


          DAMON
Okay?


          NATALIE
Okay.


EXT. DORM - NIGHT 


Damon jogs around his car to the drivers side. He opens the door and 
climbs inside.


INT. DAMON'S CAR


Damon turns to face Natalie.


          DAMON
Want something to warm you up?


          NATALIE
Sure.


Damon grabs a coke and opens it. He hands it to Natalie.


          NATALIE
Thanks. 


Damon turns the key, and the car sputters. Damon turns to Natalie, 
embarrassed.


          DAMON
It's a slight process.


He turns the key again. The car continues to sputter. Damon chuckles 
weakly. He hits the dashboard, and the car starts. The song from 
"Dawson's Creek" begins playing over the radio.


          SONG
I don't wanna wait--


          DAMON
Oh God.


He quickly turns the radio off. Natalie smiles.


EXT. DORM


The car takes off, still sputtering.


EXT. WOODS/CLEARING - LATER - NIGHT


Damon's car is parked in the middle of a clearing.


          DAMON
             (o.s)
So you and Michelle were friends then?


          NATALIE
              (o.s.)
Yeah. 


          DAMON
              (o.s.)
What happened?


          NATALIE
              (o.s.)
I'd really rather not talk about her anymore.


INT. CAR - NIGHT


          DAMON
That's completely understandable. If you don't want to open up, that's 
fine. 


A moment of silence.


          DAMON
But I want you to know that I know what exactly you're going through.


          NATALIE
You do?


          DAMON
Sure. I lost somebody close to me. Uh--


This is hard for Damon. He's never opened up to anybody before.


          DAMON
           (cont'd)
My girlfriend. She's uh-- Well, she's dead. And, uh...


          NATALIE
        (sympathetic)
Oh, I'm so sorry.


          DAMON
No, it's okay. She was sick for a while. She had a, a syndrome. And 
after that, I was afraid to get close to anybody for a long time.


Natalie nods.


          DAMON
           (cont'd)
But then it hit me. Why am I being so selfish? 


Natalie shrugs.


          DAMON
           (cont'd)
I still have so much love left inside of me to give. 


          NATALIE
You do?


          DAMON
Yeah, and Natalie, you're in need of loving.


          NATALIE
I am?


          DAMON
Yeah! You're lonely, you're repressed, aching to break loose! Those are 
the types of problems only a man can fix.


          NATALIE
And I suppose you're that man.


          DAMON
Well, you know it.


He chuckles. He leans toward Natalie, about to kiss her. Natalie pushes 
him away.


          NATALIE
Nice try, Damon. That was a fairly good impersonation of a human being.


          DAMON
I understand you're afraid. But you don't have to be afraid anymore, 
Natalie. You don't have to be afraid to love.


He leans toward her, and she punches him right in the face.


          NATALIE
Start the car right now!


          DAMON
Okay, that hurt. You know, I'm just trying to help you out here. You 
don't have to act like such a bitch!


          NATALIE
Believe me, it's no act. 


          DAMON
You sure you don't want to think this over, 'cause I'm all about 
healing, Natalie.


          NATALIE
One black eye or two, Damon. You decide.


          DAMON
         (chuckles)
All right, fine. I'm gonna take a piss. I'll be right back.


He opens the door and steps outside, slamming the door behind him.


          NATALIE
Pig.


EXT. WOODS/CLEARING - NIGHT


Damon races off into the woods.


INT. CAR

Natalie has turned on the radio. She pulls down the sun visor and 
checks her hair.


EXT. WOODS


Damon unzips his pants and begins urinating.


EXT. CLEARING


We see Natalie through the windshield.


INT. CAR


Natalie puts the sun visor back up. She sighs.


EXT. WOODS


Damon finishes urinating. He zips up his pants. Suddenly,


THE KILLER JUMPS UP BEHIND HIM


and throws a rope around his throat!


INT. CAR


Natalie looks around, bored.


EXT. WOODS


The killer throws Damon to the ground, the rope still around his neck.


INT. CAR


Natalie looks at her watch.


          NATALIE
Okay.


She smiles.


EXT. WOODS


The killer beats Damon's head into the ground.


INT. CAR


Natalie looks out into the woods.


EXT. CLEARING


Natalie steps out of the car.


          NATALIE
           (shouting)
Damon! Shake it and lets go!


A noise behind her! Natalie looks behind her to see...


NOTHING!


Natalie turns back and is face to face with


THE KILLER!


Natalie screams and runs around the car to the drivers side. She opens 
the door and climbs inside.


INT. CAR


Natalie locks the door and begins rolling up the window. The killer 
pounds on the window, then moves to the back. Natalie turns the key, 
and the car sputters. All the warning signals flash.


          NATALIE
Come on, come on, come on.


EXT. CLEARING


The killer throws a rope over the hitch.


INT. CAR


          NATALIE
Damon!


Suddenly, there's a pounding on the roof, like somebody's walking on 
it. Natalie screams, and continues to try to get the car started. The 
pounding stops, but in its place is a scratching noise.


          NATALIE
Damon!


EXT. CAR


The camera slowly pans up to show Damon hanging from a tree, his legs 
barely touching the roof of the car. His hands are on the noose, trying 
to loosen its grip. He can barely breathe.


          DAMON
          (weakly)
Natalie, don't start the car.


He coughs, his feet swinging, the tips of them touching the roof.


          DAMON
          (weakly)
Don't start the car.


INT. CAR


Natalie peers out of the windshield, trying to see what is making the 
sound. Suddenly, the killer's face slams into the windshield, making 
Natalie scream. She hits the dashboard a few times, and the car starts. 
She puts it in drive and presses down on the gas pedal.


EXT. CAR


The car speeds forward. The rope spins around the tree, dragging Damon 
high into the air. He flails wildly, his oxygen slowly escaping him. 


The car comes to a stop, the rope pulling taut. The killer flies off 
the roof and lands on the ground.


CLOSE ON:


Damon's dead body as it slowly sways in the wind.


INT. CAR


Natalie looks through the windshield.


NATALIE'S POV


The killer stands up. We see him clearly for the first time. He wears a 
black, hooded parka and black pants. The hood is drawn tight, making it 
impossible to see into. 


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie presses down on the gas pedal, trying to get the car loose.


EXT. /INT. CAR


The tires are flinging mud into the air. The rope is pulled taut. This 
car isn't going anywhere. The killer walks over to the car and onto the 
hood. He raises his leg and smashes it into the windshield. Natalie 
screams and her foot lets go of the gas. The killer kicks the 
windshield again, making the windshield spiderweb. Natalie screams and 
puts the car into reverse. She presses her foot down on the pedal and 
the car flies backward, and the killer flies off the hood, landing with 
a thump.


As the car speeds backwards, the rope loosens and Damon's dead body 
begins to plummet toward the earth. The car suddenly rams into the 
tree. Natalie hears the sound of the rope spinning around the tree, and 
peers up through the windshield. Suddenly, Damon's body plummets right 
into the windshield, breaking it. His head is only mere inches from 
Natalie. Natalie screams and throws open the door. She climbs out.


Natalie looks around, but doesn't see the killer. She stands up and 
runs.


INT. CAMPUS SECURITY OFFICE


CLOSE ON:


The T.V. A woman(Pam Greer) points a gun at a man. She begins talking. 
Reese recites the words with her.


          REESE
This is the end of your rotten life, you mother fucking dope pusher.


NORMAL VIEW


Reese has her gun out. There's a shot on the T.V., and Reese pretends 
to fire her gun. 


CLOSE ON:


The T.V. The woman walks over to another dope pusher, gun in hand.


NORMAL VIEW


Reese again recites the words along with the T.V.


          REESE
It was easy for him, 'cause he didn't believe it was coming. But it 
ain't gonna be easy for you, 'cause you better believe it's coming. 


There's a gunshot, and Reese mimics it. Suddenly, the door opens and 
Natalie runs in. Reese quickly puts her gun away. 


          REESE
Girl, what's wrong with you?


          NATALIE
They killed him. Somebody killed him.


Reese's jaw drops, shocked and stunned.


EXT. BRIDGE - NIGHT


A long bridge. Below it is nothing but blue water. Reese's cop car is 
on the bridge, lights flashing.


          NATALIE
             (o.s.)
It's right past this bridge.


EXT. WOODS/CLEARING


It's clear. The car is gone, Damon's body is gone, the killer is gone. 
Everything is gone. Reese's cop car pulls to a stop in the middle of 
the clearing. 


          REESE
            (o.s)
I don't see nothin. Are you sure this is it? 


Reese and Natalie both get out of the car. Reese holds a flashlight. 


          NATALIE
I don't get it. The car was--


          REESE
Here, huh? You don't mind me asking, what the hell are you on?


          NATALIE
Nothing! The car was right here!


Reese bends down and picks up an empty beer can.


          REESE
Right here?


          NATALIE
Reese, I saw his body. I touched it. It's probably the same person who 
killed Michelle Mancini.


          REESE
That's impossible, baby. The police arrested that gas station attendant 
this afternoon.


Natalie shakes her head, not knowing what to say.


INT. STUDENT UNION - NEXT DAY


Parker and Sasha sit next to each other on one couch, Brenda on the 
other. Natalie sits in the chair.


          PARKER
It was a mannequin, Natalie. Damon uses it all the time to scare 
pledges during hazing. He also has this life size blow up doll. You 
probably don't want to know about that. 


          NATALIE
It wasn't a mannequin, Parker. Damon was dead.


          PARKER
Come on, Nat! Damon is the best practical joker on this campus, all 
right. He once convinced a freshman he was the middle Hanson brother 
just so he could get laid.


          BRENDA
Okay, Parker, shouldn't he be here enjoying his handiwork?


          PARKER
Weekend snow boarding trip. Some last fling bachelor party with high 
school buddies. Come on!


Natalie doesn't buy it. She knows Damon is dead.


          PARKER
Woah, woah, woah, wait a minute. Scratching on the roof of a car. It's 
just like that urban legend.


Brenda smiles.


          NATALIE
What are you talking about?


          PARKER
Come on, Natalie. Wexler talks about it every semester in class. You 
know, a guy and a girl parked out in the woods, making out.


          BRENDA
You made out with him?


Natalie shoots her a look. Brenda only smiles mischievously.


          PARKER
The guy steps out of the car, and the girl starts hearing scratching 
noises on the roof. It's her dead boyfriend hung from a tree. Damon's 
in the class! He knew the myth. He must've planned the whole thing out. 
Guy thought it was the only way a girl would ever say he was "hung." 
Conniving bastard.


Sasha laughs and Parker snuggles up to her. He is about to kiss her 
when Natalie interrupts.


          NATALIE
Wait a second. Isn't there a legend about a guy with an axe hiding in 
the backseat of a woman's car?


          SASHA
Hello? My mom still checks the backseat before getting into a car.


          NATALIE
That's how Michelle Mancini died.


          BRENDA
Oh my God.


          SASHA
What are you trying to say, Natalie?


          NATALIE
It's like someone out there is taking all these stories and making them 
reality.


Sasha smiles and Parker stands up. He walks over to Natalie.


          PARKER
Well, my big question is, what is he gonna do next? Maybe put spider 
eggs in bubble gum. Maybe ram a gerbil up a celebrity's ass?


Sasha laughs.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
Come on, Nat! Give Damon a call at the Killington. You'll see he's 
there.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM - LATER


Natalie enters. Loud heavy rock music is blaring from the speakers. 
Tosh smokes a cigarette, apparently in a chat room. Natalie approaches 
Tosh.


          NATALIE
Tosh, do you mind if I use--


Tosh spins around, angry.


          TOSH
What!?


Natalie pauses, looking at Tosh's angry face. She decides not to cause 
an unnecessary fight.


          NATALIE
Never mind.


EXT. CAMPUS - LATER


Natalie is at a phone booth, talking to a woman who works at the 
Killington.


          WOMAN
       (from phone)
Yeah, there was a blond guy that arrived with that group this morning. 
A bachelor party or something?


          NATALIE
Damon Brooks, specifically. Can you tell me if he checked in? 


          WOMAN
Oh, I can't tell you that. The cabin's not in his name and it's not on 
his credit card. I'd be happy to take a message, but I can't guarantee 
he'll come by and pick it up. So, whatever you want--


Natalie hangs the phone up. That idea didn't work.


EXT. LIBRARY - LATER


Natalie walks up the stone steps to the large, old library. The sun has 
set and it's getting dark...


INT. LIBRARY 


Natalie walks by row after row of books. She finds the row she needs 
and starts to look for the book. Suddenly, she hears footsteps. Natalie 
turns, and when she does, a figure walks by the camera. Natalie looks 
around.


          NATALIE
Hello?


She sighs, and goes back to looking when she hears a rustling sound. 
Natalie stops. There's indistinct whispering somewhere in the library. 
Then a noise like a chair being pushed back.


          NATALIE
Someone there?


No response. Natalie just shrugs it off and continues her search. She 
finds what she's been looking for. She pulls it off the shelf.


CLOSE ON:


The book. The title is: THE ENCYCLOPEDIA OF URBAN LEGENDS."


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie presses the book against her chest, so that no one can see the 
title. She heads out of the aisle. Suddenly, a noise behind her. 
Natalie turns, and in that instance she bumps into...


SASHA!


Natalie gasps. Sasha laughs. She also has a book. She holds it out to 
Natalie.


          SASHA
Hey, Nat. Look what I found.


          NATALIE
What?


Sasha opens the book to a page. It has illustrations of people in weird 
sexual positions.


          SASHA
       (re:the book)
An early edition of Kama Sutra....with illustrations. Think Parker will 
get into it?


          NATALIE
Does he have a choice?


          SASHA
No.


They're both giggling like little school girls. Sasha notices Natalie's 
book.


          SASHA
What's that?


          NATALIE
Um...


She reluctantly shows the book to Sasha.


          SASHA
Nat, don't tell me you still believe--


          NATALIE
I don't know.


INT. LIBRARY - LATER


Natalie and Sasha sit a table, looking at the Urban Legend book. 
Natalie flips through the book, Sasha looking on. Natalie doesn't see 
anything of interest until she sees one picture.


CLOSE ON:


The book. There's a picture of a woman sprawled out on a bed, her 
wrists slit. The words "Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the lights" 
written on the wall in the woman's blood.


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie glances at it a moment longer, then turns the page. She comes 
to what she's been looking for.


CLOSE ON:


The book. It shows a man hanging from a tree by his feet, his arms 
raking the roof of the car. The girlfriend is in the car, a frightened 
expression on his face. 


          NATALIE
              (o.s)
This is it.


NORMAL VIEW


The picture is really disturbing Natalie. Sasha glances at the book, 
then Natalie. She turns a few pages. She comes to another picture.


CLOSE ON:


The picture. It shows two cars on a road. One has its lights off, and 
the other one seems to be flashing their high beams.


NORMAL VIEW


          SASHA
This is definitely not a myth.


          NATALIE
What?


          SASHA
     (re:the picture)
The gang high beam initiation. It happens all the time. Gang members 
drive around at night with their headlights off. And when someone goes 
to flash them their high-beams to warn 'em, they kill 'em. That's why I 
never warn anybody about anything when I drive. 


A pause. The picture seems to upset Natalie.


          SASHA
Anyway, I gotta go. I've got some homework.


They laugh at this. They know exactly what Sasha's homework will be.


          NATALIE
Okay. See ya.


Sasha stands up.


          SASHA
Bye.


Natalie continues to look at the book while Sasha leaves.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Tosh is in a Goth chat room. She types:Goth guys 
on campus looking to hook up... I-M me.


CLOSE ON:


Tosh, still smoking a cigarette. She waits for a reply. She doesn't 
have to wait long.


CLOSE ON:


The screen. A response comes. The response is:We're on similar dark 
paths. 


CLOSE ON:


Tosh. She blows smoke into the air. She begins typing.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Tosh tpes:What U into? The response is:Lithium.


CLOSE ON:


Tosh. She smiles, obviously finding a guy she can relate to.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Tosh types:My type of guy.


INT. LIBRARY 


Natalie pulls the sign out sheet out of the front page of the book. The 
last entry is...Damon Brooks. Natalie puts the card down. Maybe she is 
paranoid. Maybe it was Damon playing a trick on her. Maybe...


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


CLOSE ON:


Tosh's fingers as she types. Her fingernails are painted black. 


CLOSE ON:


The screen. Tosh has typed:Where U at?


CLOSE ON:


Tosh, a sexy look in her eyes. She is obviously smitten by this man.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. The response:Close.


CLOSE ON:


Tosh. She begins to type.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Tosh has written:tease.


CLOSE ON:


Tosh. She smiles and begins typing.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Tosh is typing:Gonna get ready. Tell me what room 
U R in.


CLOSE ON:


Tosh. She picks up her black purse. She stands up. She glances back at 
the screen before heading for the door. 


INT. HALLWAY


Tosh opens the door and steps outside. She closes the door behind her.


EXT. LIBRARY


Natalie walks down the stone steps.


INT. BATHROOM


Tosh sets her purse down by the sink and opens it. She pulls out her 
black lipstick. She takes the cap off and starts applying the lipstick.


EXT. CAMPUS


Natalie walks down the sidewalk, heading for her dorm.


INT. BATHROOM


Tosh closes her purse, grabs it, and leaves the bathroom.


EXT. NATALIE'S DORM


Natalie walks through the arched passageway to her dorm.


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


Tosh enters the room, closing the door behind her. She walks over to 
the computer and sits down. She looks at the screen, confused.


CLOSE ON:


The computer screen. Underneath Tosh's question is the word:Yours.


NORMAL VIEW


Tosh is bewildered by this. Before she has a chance to do anything, a 
hand wraps around her mouth! Tosh tries to scream. The killer throws 
Tosh onto the bed and gets on top of her. With one hand covering her 
mouth and the other strangling her, Tosh tries to scream out. She gets 
the killer's hand off her mouth and screams before the killer clamps 
his hand over her mouth again.


INT. HALLWAY


Natalie walks down the hall to her room. A GIRL passes by her.


          GIRL
Sounds like Elvira's raising more than the dead in there.


          NATALIE
Thanks for the warning.


She stops in front of her door.


CUT TO:


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


The killer has both hands on Tosh's neck. She screams.


CUT TO:


INT. HALLWAY


Natalie puts the key in the door.


CUT TO:


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM


The killer grabs the computer cord and pulls it out of the electrical 
outlet. The computer goes off, leaving the room in darkness. The door 
starts to open.


          TOSH
N- Natalie!


The killer clamps his hand on Tosh's mouth. Natalie enters the room and 
closes the door. She goes to turn on the light. Tosh watches 
expectantly for Natalie to turn on the light, revealing the killer. 
Natalie suddenly stops, remembering the last time she walked in on 
Tosh.


          NATALIE
Sorry. Not looking.


She covers her face and walks over to her bed. Tosh continues to groan 
and moan, trying to fight off the killer. It does look like they're 
having sex. Natalie chuckles in disgust.


Tosh fights, but her oxygen is slowly being drained from her. She 
gasps.


Natalie climbs into bed, Tosh's groans still audible. Natalie grabs her 
headphones and puts them on. She turns it on. She turns up the volume 
to drown out Tosh's moans. 


Tosh still struggles feebly with the killer, but it's too late. Her 
body goes still, and her eyes roll up into her head. The killer lets 
Tosh's head fall onto the pillow. He shakes her to make sure she's 
dead, then gets off her.


Natalie lies in bed, sleeping. The killer's shadow passes over her...


FADE OUT


FADE IN


INT. NATALIE AND TOSH'S DORM ROOM - NEXT DAY - MORNING


Natalie's alarm goes off. She slowly opens her eyes. Her headphones lay 
on the pillow beside her. Natalie sighs, not wanting to get up. She 
rolls over, facing Tosh. She sits up abruptly.


Tosh's black comforter has been pulled up over her face. A puddle of 
black blood is on the floor next to Tosh's bed. Her hand is sticking 
out of the cover, blood all over it. Natalie slowly walks over to 
Tosh's bed. She reaches out and pulls back the comforter to reveal...


TOSH'S WRISTS HAVE BEEN SLIT!


Natalie screams and backs up. She puts her hands over her mouth. She 
slowly turns around to see that something has been written on the wall 
in Tosh's blood. 


"Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the lights?"


Natalie screams.


FLASH!


INT. DORM HALL - LATER


Two PARAMEDICS push in a stretcher. A GIRL and her FRIEND stand next to 
the door.


          GIRL
Hey, better check her pulse. She's looked like that for years.


The paramedics roll their eyes and push the stretcher toward Natalie's 
dorm room. Paul watches them go, a pen and pad in hand. Brenda comes 
down the stairs and walks over to Paul.


          BRENDA
Hey, Paul.


          PAUL
Hey. How is she?


He looks over at Natalie, who's being questioned by Dean Adams and 
Reese.


          BRENDA
I don't know. I haven't had a chance to talk to her yet.


          PAUL
All right. See you later.


Paul walks off down the hall toward Natalie's dorm. 


CUT TO:


Dean Adams, Reese, and Natalie. Natalie and Dean Adams sit in chairs, 
while Reese stands. Natalie takes a sip of her coffee.


          DEAN ADAMS
Natalie, we know this is hard for you. But we need to know why, if you 
heard moaning, you didn't turn on the light?


          NATALIE
I had walked in on Tosh having sex before. It wasn't something I cared 
to see again.


          REESE
So you never actually saw somebody in the room?


          NATALIE
I sensed that --


          REESE
No no. Honey, did you see anybody in the room?


          NATALIE
No.


          DEAN ADAMS
Natalie, did you know Tosh was manic depressive?


In his hand he holds the bottle of Lithium pills.


          NATALIE
She painted half the room black. I had a pretty good idea.


          REESE
There are no signs of foul play. No forced entry.


          NATALIE
What are you saying?


          DEAN ADAMS
It appears to be tragic suicide.


          NATALIE
No. Tosh didn't kill herself. There was someone else in that room. I 
mean, "Aren't you glad you didn't turn on the lights?" for Christ's 
sake?


          DEAN ADAMS
A very morbid suicide note.


Dean Adams stands up and hands the bottle of Lithium pills to Reese. 
They walk away. Natalie looks over at Brenda. Natalie stands up and 
starts to walk over to her. Brenda meets her half way.


          BRENDA
Honey, I am so sorry. Are you okay?


They embrace. Brenda suddenly realizes the stupidity of her question.


          BRENDA
            (cont'd)
Of course not. Stupid question. Who would've thought she would do 
something like that. I mean, she's weird and all--


Natalie's gaze goes beyond Brenda. Brenda turns and sees the two 
paramedics pushing the stretcher. A white cloth covers Tosh's body, but 
there are blood stains where her wrists were slit. Natalie is clearly 
shaken. Brenda tries to comfort her.


          BRENDA
Okay, Natalie, you want to go somewhere and talk?


Natalie shakes her head.


          NATALIE
No. I just wanna be alone right now.


She heads away, leaving Brenda there to stare after her. She sighs and 
walks away.


EXT. CAMPUS


Natalie walks on a sidewalk, an arched ceiling hovering above her. She 
stops and leans back against a column. In the background, Paul sees her 
and starts to walk that way. Natalie closes her eyes. Paul walks over 
to her.


          PAUL
Hey.


Natalie opens her eyes.


          NATALIE
Hey.


          PAUL
Look, I know this is a bad time for you. But I gotta ask you a couple 
of questions.


Natalie anticipated this. She starts to walk away. Paul follows her.


          NATALIE
Paul, no. I'm not doing any interviews.


          PAUL
Hey, if it makes you feel any better, I don't want to talk about Tosh, 
okay.


He starts to pull a folded piece of paper out of his pocket.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
I just wanted to know if you could tell me a little about this.


He holds it out to Natalie. It's a copy of the yearbook page that 
Natalie was looking at the other day. Natalie stops walking.


          NATALIE
How did you get that?


          PAUL
I contacted Michelle's high school. Your high school.


He puts the paper back into his pocket. 


          PAUL
Natalie, why didn't you tell me you knew her?


          NATALIE
So you can exploit her death more than you are now?


Natalie begins walking again. Paul again follows her.


          PAUL
Hey. I'm just doing my job, okay. What am I supposed to do, turn my 
back on a murder...or a suicide?


          NATALIE
It wasn't a suicide, Paul.


          PAUL
What are you talking about?


          NATALIE
She was murdered. She was murdered just like Michelle, just like Damon.


This is the first Paul has heard about Damon being murdered.


          PAUL
Damon?


Tears well up in Natalie's eyes, and she leans against a column, trying 
to hide her tears from Paul.


          PAUL
Hey. I don't know what's going on here, but if you like, we can go 
someplace and talk...off the record.


INT. PENDLETON NEWSROOM/PAUL'S OFFICE - LATER


The camera slowly pans over to Paul and Natalie. There are two desks in 
the office. The office is small, and very messy. A bulletin board rests 
above the other desk. Paul sits in a chair, trying to digest what 
Natalie just told him. He sighs.


          NATALIE
You don't believe me either.


          PAUL
It's not that. It's just... the idea of an urban legend serial killer, 
it's a stretch.


          NATALIE
But don't you think it's possible?


          PAUL
Yeah, it's possible.


He gets up, walks over to the other desk.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
But maybe, uh, maybe the gas station attendant killed Michelle. Maybe 
Damon's snowboarding. And maybe Tosh just killed herself. 


          NATALIE
Okay.


          PAUL
If it is true, why like this? Why now?


Natalie looks behind Paul, at the bulletin board.


          NATALIE
Tonight's the 25th anniversary.


Paul looks at the bulletin board. There's a flyer for the Omega Sigma 
Phi bash.


          PAUL
What's that got to do with anything?


          NATALIE
The Stanley Hall Massacre.


          PAUL
I told you that story is not true.


          NATALIE
Are you sure?


INT. RECORD ROOM/STAIRWAY - LATER


Paul and Natalie walk up winding stairs into the record room.


          PAUL
All right, if there's any truth to Stanley Hall, it'd be in here.


Paul stops at a shelf with yearbooks on it. He starts to look through 
them. Natalie smiles.


          NATALIE
So this is where you research all your lurid articles.


          PAUL
Reality is lurid, all right? I'm just the messenger.


He looks at a stack of yearbooks.


          PAUL
'71, '72, '74... Huh. That's weird. '73's not here.


Out on the stairwell, the janitor begins to mop. The mop slams against 
the sides of the stairs. Paul and Natalie walk out of the record room.


          PAUL
Hey, how long you've been working here?


          JANITOR
Too damn long.


          PAUL
Know anything about Stanley Hall?


The janitor stops, looks up at them.


          JANITOR
I don't know what you're talking about.


He goes back to mopping.


          NATALIE
Did anybody die there?


The janitor stops mopping and starts to descend the steps.


          NATALIE
Please. We really need to know.


The janitor stops, considering. He looks up at them again.


          JANITOR
Talk to Wexler.


INT. COLLEGE BUILDING/OUTSIDE WEXLER'S OFFICE


Natalie knocks on the door. Nothing. She turns to Paul.


          NATALIE
It's his office hours. He should be here.


          PAUL
Watch out for a second.


He moves over to the door. He pulls out a credit card and puts it in 
the small crack in the door. After a few seconds, the door opens. Paul 
turns to Natalie.


          PAUL
Would you look at that.


He goes inside. Natalie can't believe Paul did that. She walks inside 
and closes the door.


INT. WEXLER'S OFFICE


Wexler's office is large. Masks and other figurines adorn the room. 
Paul is at Wexler's desk, looking at all the papers sprawled out on it. 
Natalie walks over to him.


          NATALIE
So, they teach you this in class?


          PAUL
I dropped journalism ethics early in the semester. It wasn't helping my 
G.P.A.


He opens the drawer and starts going through it. Natalie sees three 
doors across the room. She walks over to them. She opens the first one. 
Inside is nothing but books. She closes the door and walks over to the 
second one. She opens the door. Again, nothing but books. Natalie goes 
to the third door. It has no door knob. She pushes it open and comes 
face to face with...


THE KILLER!


She gasps and backs up. Paul looks up, but sighs. It's only a parka 
hanging on a rack. Natalie steps inside, eyeing the parka warily. 
Inside the closet is a shelf with books, a stuffed fox, along with 
other creepy things. Natalie's eyes wander down to the ground. She sees 
an axe resting against a shelf.


          NATALIE
Paul!


Paul walks around the desk and into the closet. He sees the axe.


          PAUL
Oh, shit.


EXT. WEXLER'S OFFICE


Wexler unlocks the door and opens it.


INT. WEXLER'S OFFICE


Paul quickly and quietly closes the door. They hear footsteps in the 
room. They both tense up, hoping that Wexler won't look in the closet. 
They hear a door open, then close. Silence. They both sigh, relieved. 


Paul opens the door and sticks his head out, searching the room.


          NATALIE
Is he gone?


          PAUL
Yeah.


They step out of the closet.


          PAUL
Whew.


Natalie grabs the door to the bookcase and closes it, revealing...


WEXLER!


Natalie gasps.


          WEXLER
Something I can help you with?


INT. DEAN ADAM'S OFFICE - LATER


Natalie and Paul sit in front of Dean Adams's desk, while Reese and 
Wexler stand behind them.


          DEAN ADAMS
You two break into a professor's office, then have the audacity to 
accuse him of murder?


          NATALIE
We found the axe.


          WEXLER
That is a prop I use in my folklore class. How can you even suggest 
that I had anything to do with that girl's death?


          PAUL
Why don't you tell us about the Stanley Hall Massacre?


Wexler immediately turns to look at him. Dean Adams's expression 
changes to mild surprise and horror. He's obviously covering something 
up.


          DEAN ADAMS
Professor Wexler, Reese, may I have a word alone with them?


Reese and Wexler walk out of his office. Natalie knows something's 
about to happen.


          DEAN ADAMS
Natalie, after out talk this morning, I decided to look at your 
personal file.


He picks up a manilla folder off the desk and opens it. He looks at it 
then sets it back on his desk.


          DEAN ADAMS
          (cont'd)
Probation for reckless endangerment?


          NATALIE
It was only for a year. I'd already been accepted here.


          DEAN ADAMS
Which was lucky, since we don't usually accept students with a criminal 
record.


Paul looks away from Natalie, feeling betrayed.


          DEAN ADAMS
As for you young man, you're off the paper effective immediately.


          PAUL
No, no, no, you can't do that. Read the charter. The dean can't dictate 
editorial policy.


          DEAN ADAMS
I didn't fire you. Your editor did. We spoke on the phone an hour ago. 
Have a good weekend.


He leans back in his chair.


EXT. COLLEGE BUILDING 


Natalie throws open the door and starts down the steps, Paul right 
behind her.


          PAUL
What was all that about? Reckless endangerment? We're not exactly 
talking about running a stop sign here, are we, Natalie?


          NATALIE
I really don't want to talk about it!


          PAUL
Oh, okay. What do you want to talk about? My career options without a 
body of writing samples? Because, for your information, Natalie, 
they're kinda limited!


          NATALIE
It was in high school, Paul! It's over!


          PAUL
Look, does this have something to do with Michelle Mancini? 


Natalie doesn't answer him.


          PAUL
Hey, I just want to know what's going on here... 'cause I don't know if 
I buy it anymore. I don't know if I ever bought it.


Paul walks off without another word being said.


INT. SWIMMING POOL AREA/GYM - LATER


Brenda, wearing only a bathing suit and swim cap, stands by the pool. 
She jumps in and starts swimming.


EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS


Natalie walks toward the gym.


INT. SWIMMING POOL AREA/GYM


Brenda continues to swim.


EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS


Natalie starts to walk up the steps to the gym.


          WEATHER WOMAN
          (voice-over)
It's gonna be a wet one out there tonight.


INT. SWIMMING POOL AREA/GYM


Brenda continues to swim.


          WEATHER WOMAN
                (voice-over)
The storm is expected to bring four inches of rain...


INT. ROOM OVERLOOKING POOL


Natalie walks into the room. A T.V. is on. The weather woman continues 
to broadcast the news.


          WEATHER WOMAN
and 30-mile per hour wind throughout most of New England. Local 
authorities are advising everyone to stay inside. If you do have to go 
outside, make sure you grab a slicker. 


Natalie goes over to the window and watches Brenda swim. 


Brenda reaches the other side of the pool, and shoves off of the wall, 
headed in the other direction. A figure appears at one of the doors to 
the pool. The door opens and Natalie sees 


THE KILLER!


Natalie gasps and starts banging on the window.


          NATALIE
Brenda!


Brenda continues to swim, unaware of the killer walking beside the 
pool. 


Natalie runs over to one of the doors, tries to push it open but can't. 
She runs over to the other door, but it's also locked. She runs back 
over to the window and pounds on it.


          NATALIE
Brenda!


Brenda has almost reached the end of the pool, right where the killer 
is standing. The killer starts to unzip his coat. Brenda reaches the 
end of the pool and starts to pull herself up.


Natalie looks around for something, anything, and sees a chair. She 
grabs it and smashes it against the window. 


Brenda looks up at Natalie, who sees that the person in the parka is 
not the killer, just a WOMAN. Brenda exchanges glances with the woman.


INT. LOCKER ROOM


Brenda, fully dressed. walks alongside Natalie.


          BRENDA
Natalie, nothing is going to happen to me. Why do you keep doing this 
to yourself? Look at you. You gotta stop this.


Brenda walks over to her locker while Natalie sits down on a bench.


          NATALIE
I knew Michelle Mancini.


This stops Brenda. She turns to Natalie. 


          NATALIE
We went to high school together.


Brenda closes her locker.


          NATALIE
We haven't spoken in two years.


Brenda walks over to Natalie and sits next to her.


          BRENDA
Why?


FLASH!


Natalie is having a flashback. We are in her car. Michelle is driving. 


          NATALIE
We were in my car one night. Michelle was driving.


FLASH!


Back to the present.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
The story about the gang high beam initiation was going around.


FLASH!


We are back in Natalie's car. Natalie and Michelle are talking.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
Michelle wanted to play a practical joke.


FLASH!


Back to Brenda and Natalie.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
So she turned off the head lights and waited for the first car to pass 
by and flash us.


FLASH!


A car drives down the road. It flashes Michelle and Natalie. In the 
car, Michelle goes ecstatic.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
When somebody finally did, she made a U-turn and started chasing him.


Natalie's car makes a U-turn on the road and follows the other car, 
flashing the high beams.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
Flashing her high beams, laughing.


The man in the other car tries to look through his rear view mirror, 
but the lights blind him. 


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
I was laughing too, at first...


FLASH!


Back to Brenda and Natalie.


          NATALIE
           (cont'd)
But then we started going really fast. 


FLASH!


Natalie's car speeds down the road, flashing its lights. 


FLASH!


Natalie continues her story, pained.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
I wanted to tell her to stop...


FLASH!


Natalie sits in her car, not saying anything.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
But I just sat there.


The man in the other car continues to look in the rear view mirror, 
blinded. He is obviously frightened.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
Then the other car lost control and veered off the road.


In Natalie's car, Natalie and Michelle sit stoned face, not wanting to 
believe what they just saw.


FLASH!


Natalie is almost to tears, remembering that night.


          NATALIE
           (cont'd)
He- he- He was our age.


FLASH!


Police are everywhere. We see the man laying on the ground, his head 
cracked open.


          NATALIE
           (cont'd)
By the time the police got there, he was dead.


We pan over to Michelle and Natalie. Michelle is talking with a police 
officer, while Natalie stands there, stone faced. Her hands are pressed 
to the sides of her head.


          NATALIE
            (cont'd)
The courts were lenient with us. We only got probation.


FLASH!


A few tears stream down Natalie's face.


          NATALIE
           (cont'd)
I was never able to forgive her for what she did. I guess I wasn't able 
to forgive myself for not doing more to stop it.


          BRENDA
Oh my God. How awful...for everyone.


Natalie nods.


          NATALIE
Yeah.


INT. CORRIDOR - LATER


Natalie and Brenda walk down the corridor, heading outside.


          NATALIE
I don't know. Maybe I should go home for a few weeks.


          BRENDA
Natalie, come on. You need to relax, have some fun, and come to the 
party, okay? Please?


          NATALIE
Okay. Promise you won't leave me alone?


          BRENDA
I promise. Unless, of course, I hook up with some cute, blue eyed 
journalist. Then you might have to fend for yourself. 


They both giggle.


INT. PAUL'S OFFICE - LATER - NIGHT


Paul goes through his desk, packing. He throws some folders into a box. 
The janitor appears, unnoticed by Paul. He opens his drawer, and pulls 
out a folder. Underneath is a newspaper.


It has a picture of a young William Wexler, with a headline that reads 
"Sole survivor William Wexler." Paul is intrigued and takes it out. He 
unfolds it and reads the top headline. "Massacre at Stanley Hall." Over 
to the side is a picture of Stanley Hall. 


The janitor starts to leave. Paul looks up and sees him leave. Paul 
silently thanks him. He knows what he has to do.


INT. PARKING GARAGE - LATER


Dean Adams walks to his car. Most of the place is dark, and Dean 
Adams's car is one of the few left. Dean Adams presses a button on his 
automatic door lock. His car beeps, unlocking. Dean Adams is about to 
open his car. He stops, and looks into his backseat.


DEAN ADAMS'S POV


His back seat is empty.


NORMAL VIEW


Dean Adams shakes his head, and goes to open his car door again. 
Suddenly, a hand grabs his shoulder! He spins around to see...


REESE!


He gasps, frightened.


          DEAN ADAMS
Don't do that.


          REESE
Sorry, Dean. A little jumpy?


          DEAN ADAMS
          (lying)
No, not at all.


He thinks of some excuse to explain his behavior.


          DEAN ADAMS
          (cont'd)
Just...thinking.


Reese nods.


          REESE
Me too. It wouldn't be a bad idea to add on a few extra guards this 
weekend. Just in case.


          DEAN ADAMS
In case what?


          REESE
After the suicide and what happened to that Mancini girl-- Now I'm 
having trouble locating a boy named Damon Brooks. He's been missing for 
some days now.


          DEAN ADAMS
Missing? He's not missing. It's the weekend. He's probably shacked up 
in some motel with a girl. Or a guy, farm animal, whatever. 


Reese gives him a look.


          DEAN ADAMS
Weren't you ever eighteen?


          REESE
Not that kind of eighteen.


          DEAN ADAMS
My point is, I don't want you overreacting. Don't contact any one 
without my permission.


Reese nods.


          DEAN ADAMS
               (cont'd)
No parents, no police. Is that understood?


Reese nods.


          REESE
Understood. Good night, sir.


Dean Adams smiles and turns back to his car. Reese mouths the words 
"ass hole" and turns and walks away. Dean Adams looks at the back seat 
again, but shakes his head. Nobody could've snuck into his car. 
Suddenly, there's a clinking noise in the background. Dean Adams spins 
around, horrified. He looks around, but it's too dark. He can't see 
anything.


Suddenly, a knife appears from under his car and slices his ankles! 
Dean Adams screams and drops to the ground. He looks at his ankles and 
sees blood pouring out from them. He gasps and starts to crawl away 
from the car.


The killer crawls out from under the car and stands up. Dean Adams 
crawls past the front of his car. The killer walks over to his car and 
opens the door. He reaches inside and flicks a button. 


FLASH!


The lights come on. Dean Adams stops crawling and looks behind him. The 
killer pulls a lever marked with a "P." The car starts to roll forward. 
The killer walks along side it. Dean Adams continues to crawl, panting. 
The car gets closer, closer. The killer's footsteps echo throughout the 
garage.


Dean Adams stops when he comes to the tire spikes in the pavement. He 
turns around and screams. The car is on top of him. It pushes him down, 
right onto the tire spikes. The car's tires blow out as they roll past. 
The car smashes the small beam in half. The car rolls past Dean Adams's 
bloody body. 


The killer turns and starts to walk away. The camera focuses on Dean 
Adam's hand. It moves slightly, then stays still. The camera pans up to 
a sign that says: "Severe Tire Damage."


EXT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE - LATER - ESTABLISHING SHOT - NIGHT


A very large frat house. Four, five stories high with about maybe over 
fifty rooms. People head toward the house. 


          PEOPLE
     (chanting; o.s.)
Hootie! Hootie! Hootie! Hootie!


INT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE


The chanting continues while music blares from a speaker. People are 
dressed in a wide variety of costumes. Most of them are dressed like 
dead people. The camera pans over to Parker, holding his dog HOOTIE in 
his hands. A funnel is in his mouth, and a man is pouring beer into it.


          PARKER
There you go! There you go! That's my boy! That's my boy!


Hootie has downed the entire can of beer. The crowd bursts into 
applause and cheering. Parker kisses Hootie. 


CUT TO:


The D.J. at the control board. He starts to play the song "Roller 
Coaster." Sasha stands by the speaker, clearly not having fun. A NERDY 
GUY walks over to her.


          NERDY GUY
Listen. Listen.


A scream comes from the speaker, all apart of the song.


          NERDY GUY
That scream? That's an actual cry for help by a girl being murdered.


Sasha doesn't care, but she goes along with it.


          SASHA
You're kidding me.


          NERDY GUY
            (chuckles)
No. That's why it sounds so real because it was lifted off a 9-1-1 
tape. 


          SASHA
That's great.


          NERDY GUY
Yeah. Woah.


Sasha walks away.


CUT TO:


Natalie, just entering the house. She looks around, clearly 
uncomfortable by all the people. Brenda comes running up.


          BRENDA
Hey, Miss Thing!


          NATALIE
Hey.


They hug.


          BRENDA
You made it!


Hootie runs past them, the funnel clutched in his mouth.


          NATALIE
And already I'm starting to regret it.


          BRENDA
I'm going to go get something to drink. Want anything?


          NATALIE
A beer.


          BRENDA
Okay. Be right back!


She moves into the crowd.


          PAUL
           (o.s.)
Stanley Hall's not a legend.


Natalie spins around to see Paul.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
And there's one survivor that night.


He holds up the newspaper.


INT. SECOND STORY - LATER


Paul and Natalie sit by the railing of the stairs, talking.


          PAUL
It makes perfect sense. Pendleton covered up Stanley Hall. And Wexler, 
so long as he keeps his mouth shut, gets a job for life. 


          NATALIE
Why would he do it?


          PAUL
It eats at him. And every year around this time, he goes a little 
wacko. This year...off the charts.


          NATALIE
Then we have to call the police before it happens again.


          PAUL
I already tried. Dean Adams beat me to it. They said he warned 'em to 
expect prank calls tonight. Even gave 'em our names.


For a few seconds, they say nothing. Natalie is on the verge of losing 
it.


          PAUL
Look.


What he is about to say is obviously hard. 


          PAUL
I'm sorry I doubted you before.


Natalie loses it. She begins to cry.


          PAUL
What?


          NATALIE
What is he trying to do to me?


Paul doesn't know what to say. He's dumbfounded. Natalie continues to 
cry.


          NATALIE
I'm so scared.


Paul takes Natalie's head in his hands.


          PAUL
Hey, listen to me. Nothing is going to happen to you, okay? I promise.


He leans toward her, and they kiss. A long, passionate kiss. Too long. 
Brenda comes walking down the hall, two glasses of beer in her hands. 
She sees them kissing, and turns angry.


          BRENDA
You don't waste anytime, do you, Natalie?


The kiss is broken. Natalie looks up at Brenda, who is pissed.


          NATALIE
Brenda--


          BRENDA
Here. It's light.


She shoves Natalie's beer into her hand then storms off. Paul has no 
idea what's going on.


          NATALIE
Oh, shit.


          PAUL
What was all that about?


          NATALIE
I screwed up. 


She stands up and leaves.


EXT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE - PORCH - NIGHT


Brenda comes out of the house and walks over to the steps. She sits 
down and begins to cry.


INT. COLLEGE BUILDING - LATER


Reese walks down the flight of steps, flashlight in hand. She starts 
down the hallway when she bumps into...


THE JANITOR!


She gasps.


          REESE
Jesus! You trying to give me a heart attack here!


          JANITOR
          (deadpan)
Boo.


          REESE
The building's off-limits after 10:00.


The janitor starts to descend the stairs.


          REESE
A good night to you too.



Suddenly, she hears glass breaking. Reese immediately tenses up. She 
reaches into her holster and pulls out her gun. She slowly makes her 
way down the hall. She stops at the corner, pointing her flashlight and 
her gun. She walks down the hall, slowly and carefully. The door to 
Wexler's office is open. She points her gun and flashlight into the 
opening.


          REESE
Hello?


Reese makes her way into the room.


INT. WEXLER'S OFFICE


Reese looks around. The whole office has been trashed. Papers are 
strewn everywhere, books are thrown about, his masks are knocked down. 
Reese walks over to the closet. She goes inside.


Reese checks every corner of the closet. The flashlight's beam comes to 
rest upon the shelf where the axe had been resting. The axe is gone! 
Reese begins to back out. Suddenly, she slips and falls to the ground. 
We see that she has slipped in a large puddle of blood! 


          REESE
Ow. Oh.


She looks at all the blood.


          REESE
What?


CUT TO:


INT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE - LATER 


Paul runs over to Parker, who is over by the D.J.


          PAUL
Hey, Parker, let me talk to you for a second.


They move away from the D.J. and the radio control board.


          PAUL
Look, you might want to end this party a little early.


          PARKER
What?


          PAUL
Natalie was right all along.


          PARKER
Say no more. Everybody, listen up!


Paul tries to stop Parker, but he shrugs him off.


          PARKER
No, no, no. Listen! Turn the music down.


The D.J. turns the volume down.


          PARKER
Paul here, he thinks we should end the party early.


The crowd does not agree, and they mumble their protest. Sasha watches, 
wondering what Parker is doing.


          PARKER
          (to crowd)
No, no, no, no.
(to Paul) 
Tell everybody why. Why they should go home.


          PAUL
There's a killer on campus.


Everybody laughs.


          PARKER
And let me guess. This killer's offing people based on urban legends.


          PAUL
Yeah, that's right.


          PARKER
Well, I have a legend you may or may not of heard of, Paul. You see, 
this mediocre Woodward and Bernstein wanna be realizes: "Shit! I'm 
gonna graduate in a couple of weeks and write gardening tips for Martha 
Stewart's living!"


The crowd laughs.


          PARKER
Unless-- Hang on. Unless I get a really hot story. You know, something 
that really flies. I got it. I got it. I'll take advantage of my 
homicidal instincts and start killing people in a trendy, attention 
getting, cover story kinda way. Basing them on... urban legends.


Paul looks almost guilty, then:


          PAUL
Why don't you have another drink.


Parker grabs Paul's arm.


          PARKER
Paul, maybe your the one that should leave and let everybody else have 
a good time! Right! Whoo!


The crowd erupts in cheers and Parker runs over to a guy, who pours a 
small bottle of beer into his mouth.


Paul walks over to Natalie, who witnessed the whole thing.


          PAUL
You stay here. I'm gonna go get some help.


          NATALIE
Okay.


CUT TO:


Parker and Sasha.


          SASHA
Parker, why do you always have to be such a jerk?


          PARKER
I was just messing around.


          SASHA
Look, I'm gonna go to the radio station, okay?


          PARKER
Hey, hey. Who's my girl? Who's my girl?


Sasha blows him a kiss.


          PARKER
That's my girl!


EXT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE - NIGHT


Sasha comes running out of the house, the rain soaking her. She runs 
over to a  car and climbs inside. A FRIEND sits behind the wheel.


          SASHA
Let's go.


INT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE/KITCHEN


Parker walks into the kitchen, finishing a beer. The phone rings. 
Parker answers it.


          PARKER
Hello?


There's no response.


          PARKER
Hello?


          MAN'S VOICE
You're gonna die tonight.


          PARKER
Oh, really?


He flips the phone over and looks at the built in caller I.D. It says: 
"Damon Brooks." Parker puts the phone back to his ear.


          PARKER
Let's see. The call's coming from inside the house. Could it be... an 
urban legend? Am I right? Hello? Don't get shy on me all of a sudden, 
fuck face.


INT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI LIVING ROOM


Parker pushes his way through the streamers dangling from the ceiling 
above the door to the kitchen.


          PARKER
This is the one about the baby-sitter, right? She's getting those 
scary, harassing phone calls.


Parker begins to climb up the stairs.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
And when she traces them back, they're coming from inside the house!


Parker is now on the second floor. A few PEOPLE walk by him.


          PARKER
           (cont'd)
But, asswipe, aren't you forgetting something? I'm not baby sitting any 
kids.


          MAN'S VOICE
Wrong legend. This is the one about the old lady who dries her wet dog 
in the microwave.


FLASH CUT TO:


The microwave.


CUT BACK TO:


Parker. He throws the phone down and races down the steps. He runs past 
the partygoers and into the...


INT. KITCHEN


The light in the microwave goes off and it beeps. Parker stands there, 
not knowing what to do. He doesn't want to open it, but it's just some 
creep messing with him, right? He grabs the door handle and throws it 
open to reveal...


THE SPLATTERED REMAINS OF HOOTIE!


Parker gasps, sickened.


          PARKER
Fuck! Fucking sick motherfucker! Hootie! Fuck!


He races out of the kitchen. He runs down a hallway.


          PARKER
Wanna fuck with me!


He races into a...


INT. BATHROOM


Parker runs into the small bathroom and over to the cigarette filled 
toilet. He bends over it, wanting to vomit. Suddenly, the killer enters 
the bathroom and pushes Parker's head into the toilet.


INT. BATHROOM - LATER


Parker wakes up, but can't move. His hands have been tied around the 
toilet. A line of blood is on his face. He struggles against his bonds 
when the killer suddenly appears. Parker struggles, but the killer 
grabs a funnel and shoves it down Parker's throat. 


He gags, trying to spit it out. The killer grabs a  bag of Pop Rocks 
and tears it open. He pours it into the funnel, and down into Parker's 
mouth. The killer then reaches over to the sink and grabs a bottle of 
Drano. He pours it into the funnel. Parker gags and convulses. The 
tunnel overflows, but the killer continues to pour. 


The killer drops the bottle and takes the funnel out of Parker's mouth. 
He tosses it into the sink and walks out of the bathroom, leaving 
Parker's dead corpse tied to the toilet.


INT. CAMPUS SECURITY OFFICE - LATER - NIGHT


Reese is on the phone with a 9-1-1 operator.


          WOMAN
Are you sure it's blood?


          REESE
Yes, I'm sure it's blood! I'm covered in it!


          WOMAN
Due to the storm, all units are presently responding to calls. A unit 
has been notified.


          REESE
You know what chaps my hide? The way you pledged an oath to serve and 
protect, and then you don't give a rat's ass when something really does 
happen.


          WOMAN
Hold please.


Reese has had enough. The police can't help. She hangs up the phone.


          REESE
      (whispering)
I'll do it myself.


INT. OMEGA SIGMA PHI FRAT HOUSE


Natalie sits on a couch. She picks up the phone in front of her and 
dials a number.


          PAUL
      (voice-over)
This is Paul. Leave a message.


Natalie hangs the phone up. Where could he be?


On the radio, Sasha is talking to a couple that is experiencing some 
sex problems.


          SASHA
      (from speaker)
Let me get this straight.


INT. RADIO STATION/SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


We can barely see the producer in his booth. He's reading a magazine. 


          SASHA
          (cont'd)
You guys tried out a new sexual position and now you're stuck.


          WOMAN
I'm not stuck, he is.


          MAN
Relax and stop clinching.


Sasha smiles.


          WOMAN
I saw this happen to dogs. It is so humiliating.


In the background, the killer approaches the producer from behind. 


          SASHA
All right you guys, this is what you're gonna do. Okay?


In the background, the killer wraps his hand around the producer. We 
see that the killer holds a knife in his hand. He is prepared to stab 
the producer. The booth goes dark. With a flash of lightning, we the 
killer throwing the producer's body to the ground. The line clicks and 
Sasha can't hear the couple anymore.


          SASHA
Hello?


She turns toward the booth, but it's completely dark. With a puzzled 
look, she gets up and walks over to the window and peers inside. 
Lightning flashes and Sasha sees the killer inches from her face. The 
only thing protecting her is the glass.


Sasha screams and backs away as the killer lifts the axe and swings it 
through the window, sending glass flying everywhere.


INT. FRAT HOUSE


Natalie hears Sasha screaming over the radio and turns to face the 
speaker.


INT. RADIO STATION/SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


Sasha runs over to the door while the killer breaks more of the window 
with his axe. Sasha screams and opens the door. She crawls outside and 
slams it shut. The killer starts to go through the window.


INT. FRAT HOUSE


          SASHA
      (over speaker)
Help me! Somebody help me!


Natalie runs over to the radio control board and turns up the volume, 
amplifying Sasha's cries for help.


INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY


Sasha runs down the hallway, constantly looking behind her. 


INT. FRAT HOUSE


          NATALIE
Something's happening!


The nerdy guy comes over.


          NERDY GUY
No. She's doing a performance art piece to commemorate the massacre.


INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY


Sasha runs down the hallway. Up ahead is a corner. Suddenly,


THE KILLER COMES AROUND THE CORNER AND SWINGS HIS AXE!


Sasha falls to the floor and the axe hits the wall. Sasha gets up off 
the floor and runs back the way she came. The killer gets the axe free 
of the wall and chases after her. Sasha comes to a door and throws it 
open. She runs inside and slams the door shut.


The killer grabs the handle and starts to shake it, trying to open the 
door. Sasha has a hold of the handle, preventing the killer from 
opening the door. She quickly locks it. She looks out the window in the 
door, staring at the killer.


INT. FRAT HOUSE


Natalie sits on the couch and picks up a phone. 


INT. RADIO STATION


Sasha stares at the killer only for a second, then takes off running.


INT. FRAT HOUSE


Natalie starts to dial a number. 


          SASHA
      (from speaker)
My God! Help me! Please!


Natalie gets a busy signal and throws the phone down. Nerdy guy listens 
to Sasha's screams for help.


          NERDY GUY
She's good. I got chills.


EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS


It's pouring rain. Natalie runs down the sidewalk, heading for the 
radio station.


INT. RADIO STATION


The whole front hall is one big open area. Translucent, winding stairs 
lead to each different level. There are no doors or anything. It's all 
open. No place to hide...


Sasha runs down the hall, but stops suddenly. She leans against the 
wall. 


CLOSE ON:


Sasha's face. She looks around, trying to see the killer. She doesn't 
see anybody.


WIDE OF:


The stairs. Sasha runs down the hall and comes to the stairs. She 
starts to run down them. She runs past the first platform, then down 
onto the second where she bumps into


THE KILLER!


The killer pushes her against the railing of pipes. They struggle, 
Sasha trying to punch the killer. She screams as the killer fights with 
her. Sasha feebly slaps the killer on the chest, but it has no effect 
on him.  Suddenly, he throws her over the railing. Sasha screams. She 
grabs onto the edge of the platform, hanging on for dear life.


The killer bends down and picks up his axe. Sasha screams again and 
again, tears streaming down her face.


          SASHA
Somebody, please help! Help! Oh, God, somebody help! Help!


The killer looks down at her, enjoying this. The killer pulls the axe 
back, then swings downward. Sasha screams and lets go. The axe hits 
right where Sasha's hands were.


Sasha falls and hits another platform. Her legs absorb most of the 
impact, and she falls to the ground. She slowly crawls to the railing 
and picks herself up. She looks up toward the killer.


SASHA'S POV


The killer is walking down the platform, headed right for her.


NORMAL VIEW


Sasha starts down the stairs. 


WIDE OF:


The whole staircase. Sasha is almost to the bottom, while the killer is 
still up at the top.


Sasha gets off the stairs and runs over to the elevator.


CLOSE ON:


The killer's feet as he climbs down more stairs.


CUT TO:


Sasha, as she pushes the elevator button. She looks behind her.


CLOSE ON:


The killer's feet.


CUT TO:


Sasha. The elevator dings and the doors slide open. Sasha goes inside. 
The killer reaches the bottom of the steps and comes toward Sasha. She 
screams and presses 3 on the panel. She continues to press it as the 
killer comes closer, and closer. The killer reaches the elevator right 
as the doors begin to close. He swings his axe, and Sasha screams. The 
doors close and the axe slams into the doors. 


CLOSE ON:


The floor numbers. We are on two then three. The elevator comes to a 
stop. Sasha is crying, wishing the elevator doors would open.


INT. MAIN HALL


CLOSE ON:


The killer's feet as he starts to ascend the steps.


INT. ELEVATOR/HALLWAY


The elevator doors open and Sasha leaves, half running half walking. 
She is constantly looking behind her. When she doesn't see the killer 
she backs up against a wall.


EXT. COLLEGE CAMPUS


Natalie is still running, soaking wet as the rain continues to pour.


INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY


Sasha sinks to the floor.


EXT. ROAD


Reese's cop car comes swerving down the road, sirens blaring.


INT. COP CAR


Reese turns on the radio.


          SASHA
        (over radio; sobbing)
Please help me.


Reese is shocked. 


INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY


Sasha continues to sob.


INT. COP CAR


Reese listens to Sasha sob with horror.


INT. RADIO STATION HALLWAY


CLOSE ON:


Two double doors. Suddenly, they're kicked open and the killer enters 
the hallway, axe in hand.


INT. SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


Sasha opens the door and crawls into the room. She locks the door. 
Sasha crawls over to the window, and, using the ledge, pulls herself 
up. She looks out the window.


SASHA'S POV


Natalie comes running into the main hall.


NORMAL VIEW


Sasha begins to beat on the window.


          SASHA
Natalie! 


INT. MAIN HALL


Natalie runs into the main hall.


          SASHA
            (o.s.)
Natalie!


Natalie looks up and sees Sasha pounding on the window.


          SASHA
Natalie, help me!


CLOSE ON:


Sasha, as she continues to pound on the window.


INT. SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


BANG! Sasha looks behind her and sees the killer enter the room from 
the producer's booth. She sinks to the floor, defeated.


INT. MAIN HALL


Natalie sees the killer enter the room.


          NATALIE
No!


INT. SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


The killer approaches Sasha, axe in hand.


          SASHA
Please. I don't wanna die. I don't wanna die. 


The killer raises the axe.


INT. MAIN HALL


Natalie cries out.


          NATALIE
No!


CLOSE ON:


The killer brings the axe down, cutting into Sasha. The killer raises 
the axe and brings it down again.


CLOSE ON:


Natalie. She screams.


          NATALIE
No!


CLOSE ON:


The killer. He raises the axe and brings it down for one final, lethal 
blow. Sasha is no more. The killer turns to face Natalie. A deadly 
silence. Then he raises his hand and waves.


INT. MAIN HALL


Natalie stares only a second, then takes off running. 


CLOSE ON:


The killer. He turns and leaves the room.


EXT. RADIO STATION


Natalie comes running out of the radio station. She runs down the 
steps.


INT. DORM


Natalie races into the dorm and over to Paul's door. She pounds on it.


          NATALIE
Paul!


No answer. He's not there. She turns to leave and sees Paul entering 
the dorm. 


          NATALIE
Paul! Sasha's dead! I just saw the killer!


          PAUL
All right. Where did this happen?


          NATALIE
The radio station.


          PAUL
Jesus. Come on.


They start walking toward Paul's dorm room.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
Why did you leave? I thought I told you to stay at the house.


They reach his door. Paul gets his keys and starts fumbling with them.


          PAUL
Shit.


He finds the right key and puts it in the lock. His hands are shaking. 
He turns the key and unlocks his door.


INT. PAUL'S DORM ROOM


Paul grabs the phone off the charger and walks over to his bed. 


          NATALIE
Where were you?


          PAUL
Running all over campus trying to find help. The dean is gone. I can't 
find Reese anywhere.


Paul puts the phone to his ear. After a second, he lowers it.


          PAUL
It's dead.


He walks over to the charger and puts the phone back on it. He goes 
back over to his bed.


          PAUL
Goddamn storm.


He turns to Natalie.


          PAUL
We're gonna get the hell outta here. Get off campus and find some help.


He turns his back on Natalie to grab his jacket. In that instance, 
Natalie grabs the phone and puts it to her ear. Paul turns around and 
Natalie puts the phone down.


          PAUL
What were you doing?


          NATALIE
I was just making sure the--


          PAUL
Nat, I told you the phones were dead.


He sees the suspicion in her eyes, the silent accusation.


          PAUL
Natalie, I'm on your side. Okay? Let's get outta here.


EXT. DORM - NIGHT


The storm is raging. Natalie and Paul push open the doors and start 
running down the steps.


          PAUL
We'll go into town. We'll find a phone that works.


Suddenly, Brenda jumps out in front of them. Natalie screams.


          BRENDA
What's going on? I heard Sasha on the radio and--


          NATALIE
She's dead.


          BRENDA
Oh my God. Are you sure?


          PAUL
C'mon, we're outta here.


Paul grabs Brenda's arm and all three of them begin running.


          BRENDA
What?


INT. RADIO STATION/MAIN HALL


We look up at the room where Sasha was killed.


          REESE
            (o.s.)
Hello?


INT. SASHA'S RADIO ROOM


The woman Sasha was talking to before the killer attacked can be heard, 
her words repeating over and over.


          WOMAN
I'm not stuck, he is. I'm not stuck, he is.


The words keep repeating. The door to the producer's booth opens and 
Reese comes in. She gasps when she sees Sasha's mutilated body. She 
gasps, horrified. She turns and runs out of the room.


EXT. CAMPUS


Reese's cop car drives along the road, lights and sirens on.


INT. COP CAR


Reese talks on the phone. She is talking to Dean Adams's answering 
machine.


          REESE
Dean Adams? This is Reese. 


Nothing.


          REESE
Hello? Are you there? Well, you have my number. Use it.


She hangs up the phone.


EXT. ROAD


The cop car speeds along.


EXT. ROAD/PAUL'S CAR


Paul's car drives along the road, headed away from the campus.


INT. PAUL'S CAR


Paul drives, stone faced. Natalie sits in the passenger seat, while 
Brenda sits in the back. Nobody speaks. There is a long silence. Paul 
concentrates on driving, trying to see out the window.


          NATALIE
Hey, do you smell something?


          PAUL
          (sniffs)
No.


Brenda looks out the window.


          BRENDA
Hey, maybe we should stop over there at that gas station. See if the 
phones work.


          PAUL
Okay. Fine.


He doesn't seem to like that idea, but he goes along with it.


EXT. GAS STATION


Paul's car pulls into the gas station. It parks near a pump.


          PAUL
Be right back.


          NATALIE
Okay.


Paul opens his door and steps outside. He shuts the door and jogs over 
to the gas station.


INT. PAUL'S CAR


Brenda sniffs the air.


          BRENDA
It does reek in here.


          NATALIE
Yeah.


Natalie rolls down her window. 


          BRENDA
Natalie, I'm sorry that I acted like such a jerk about you and Paul. 
You two like each other, and you should be together.


Natalie smiles, and they hug. Suddenly, they hear Wexler's musical 
watch start to beep. They pull apart, confused. Brenda glances to the 
back of Paul's car, then back at Natalie. 


EXT. GAS STATION


They both open their doors and step outside. Slowly, they make their 
way to the back of Paul's trunk. Brenda starts to open it. The stench 
comes out full blown, and they both back away, coughing. Brenda grabs 
the trunk and flings it open to reveal...


WEXLER'S MUTILATED BODY!


They both gasp and back up. They glance at each other, then at Paul, 
who stares back at them from the gas station, phone pressed up against 
his ear. He watches them, confused.


          BRENDA
Like I said, he's all yours.


They start to back away from the car, then they turn and run. They run 
across the street and into the forest. 


Paul throws the phone down and runs out of the gas station. He runs 
across the street and down the hill into the forest.


          PAUL
Natalie!


Natalie and Brenda run side by side, pushing branches out of their way.


          BRENDA
Where are we going?


          NATALIE
Back to campus.


Paul chases them, trying to catch up.


Natalie climbs over a small hill, pushing branches out of her way. 
Brenda almost slips, grabbing on to Natalie for support. They continue 
to run.


Paul runs as fast as he can, trying to find Natalie and Brenda in the 
forest. 


          PAUL
Natalie!


Brenda and Natalie continue to run, faster and faster. Suddenly, Brenda 
slips and falls down. She cries out, but Natalie doesn't hear her. 
Natalie continues to run, overcome by panic. She runs out of the 
forest. It isn't until she's surrounded by tall weeds that she realizes 
that Brenda's missing.


          NATALIE
Brenda!


Suddenly, a shriek from Brenda echoes around her.


          NATALIE
Brenda!


The next voice she hears is not Brenda's but Paul's.


          PAUL
           (o.s.)
Natalie!


This spurs Natalie into motion. She races ahead, heedless of the 
branches and weeds slapping at her. She pushes everything out of her 
way, fear driving her. She breaks from all the trees and weeds. She 
sees a road up ahead. She makes a mad dash for it.


She makes it to the road. She climbs over the guard rail and runs into 
the middle of the road. A truck stops. Inside is the janitor.


          NATALIE
Stop, stop!


The janitor rolls down his window.


          JANITOR
What's wrong?


          NATALIE
Someone's after me.


          JANITOR
Get in.


Natalie makes her way to the other side of the truck and opens the door 
and climbs in.


INT. TRUCK


Natalie closes the door and sits back. The janitor puts his foot on the 
gas and the truck starts moving.


          JANITOR
You okay?


          NATALIE
No.


          JANITOR
Got a coat right there.


Natalie turns in her seat to grab the coat, but stops. It's the same 
coat the killer wore! She looks up at the janitor, horrified. She 
doesn't know if he's the killer, but she doesn't want to stick around 
and find out. 


          JANITOR
Ain't gonna bite ya.


Natalie backs away, pressing herself against the door. 


          NATALIE
Okay, just let me out right here.


          JANITOR
What?


Natalie grabs the handle and starts jerking it, but it won't open. She 
continues to try, grunting from the effort.


          JANITOR
What are you doing?


Natalie turns to the janitor, frightened.


          NATALIE
Please, just let me out.


          JANITOR
     (matter of factly)
Door won't open from the inside.


Natalie stares, scared. She's trapped inside a small truck with someone 
who could be a killer. She continues to try to open the door, wanting 
to desperately get out. 


          JANITOR
Stop that!


When Natalie continues, he grabs her.


          JANITOR
What's wrong with ya?


Natalie looks around desperately, wanting to escape. The janitor looks 
out the front windshield. So does Natalie.


NATALIE'S POV


Paul's car appears, lights off.


NORMAL VIEW


The janitor reaches for a button.


          JANITOR
Idiot kids.


          NATALIE
NO!


The janitor pushes the button.


EXT. ROAD


The truck's lights flash. The two cars pass right by each other.


INT. TRUCK


Natalie looks out the back windshield.


NATALIE'S POV


The car makes a swift U-turn. It starts chasing Natalie and the 
janitor.


NORMAL VIEW


          NATALIE
It's him.


The janitor looks out the back windshield.


JANITOR'S POV


Sure enough, it's the killer. The lights on Paul's truck start to 
flash.


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie goes hysterical.


          NATALIE
Keep going! Keep going! Come on!


EXT. ROAD


Paul's car gets dangerously close, its lights flashing. 


INT. TRUCK


          NATALIE
Keep going! Faster!


EXT. ROAD


The two cars come to a bend. Paul's car gets right alongside the 
janitor's. Natalie looks out the window and sees the killer staring at 
her. He suddenly grabs his wheel and rams right into the truck. 


The truck swerves to the side. Another bend is coming up. Right as they 
start to turn, the killer smashes his car into the truck. Natalie and 
the janitor scream as the truck flies off the road, into the air. 


The truck hits the ground, hard. It rolls down a hill before coming to 
a stop.


INT. TRUCK


Natalie looks over at the janitor. Huge gashes are on his head. He 
doesn't move. He's dead. Natalie rolls down the window. She reaches out 
with her arm and opens the truck's door.


EXT. FOREST


Natalie climbs out of the truck and heads for the forest. She turns and 
looks behind her, trying to see if the killer's chasing her. She turns 
and runs down a dirt path.


INT. CAMPUS SECURITY STATION


Reese pushes open the doors and walks over to her desk. She opens a 
drawer and pulls out a case. She lays it on the desk and opens it. 
Inside is a very big, very formidable gun. Reese picks up the gun and 
the clip. She looks over at a poster of Pam Greer, and nods. She slams 
the clip into the gun.


EXT. CAMPUS - LATER


Natalie runs out of the forest and across the street. She comes to a 
tall, rectangular intercom booth. She pushes the button. It buzzes. 


          NATALIE
Hello? Anybody there?


She presses the button again.


          NATALIE
Hello? Can anybody hear me? Hello?


          BRENDA
             (o.s.)
Somebody help me!


Natalie is stunned. She looks into the distance. There stands Stanley 
Hall, a light illuminating from one room.


          BRENDA
              (o.s.)
Oh, God!


Natalie looks up at the window. Brenda SCREAMS! Natalie starts running 
toward Stanley Hall, intent on saving her friend. 


          BRENDA
              (o.s.)
Somebody help me!


Natalie runs over to a window. She looks around. She spots some wood 
piled up. She climbs onto it and lifts herself up.


INT. STANLEY HALL


Rats chew on pieces of wood and other assorted junk. They scatter 
suddenly when Natalie climbs through the window. She crouches and 
begins to walk, not wanting to touch anything. 


          BRENDA
             (o.s.)
Somebody help me! He's going to kill me!


Natalie stands up and walks out of the room.


INT. MAIN ROOM


Natalie enters the main hall, looking around carefully, trying to 
determine where Brenda's screams are coming from.


          BRENDA
             (o.s.)
Please!


Her cries for help are coming from up stairs. Natalie makes her way 
over to the stairs.


          BRENDA
              (o.s.)
Please, somebody help me!


Natalie begins to climb the stairs. She holds onto the railing for 
support. She makes it to the first platform. She begins to ascend the 
final steps. She stops when she hears Brenda sobbing.


          BRENDA
              (o.s.)
Please don't.


Natalie climbs the rest of the stairs and starts to walk down the hall. 
The door to room 202 is slightly open. Natalie pushes it open and walks 
inside.


INT. ROOM 202


A small room with two beds. Suddenly, the door slams close and Brenda 
screams. Natalie whips around to the door and grabs the knob, trying to 
open it. No luck. She looks around, spots a door and runs over there. 
She grabs the knob and opens it.


A barrel falls out of the closet, Parker's lifeless body tumbling out 
of the barrel! Natalie screams and backs away. She backs into the bed. 
Suddenly, she stops. She looks down and sees that a hand is sticking 
out from the covers. Natalie doesn't move. She reaches out slowly for 
the covers. She grabs it and pulls it back to reveal...


DEAN ADAMS'S BLOODY CORPSE!


Natalie screams and runs toward the only door left. She throws it open 
and screams when Damon's body flies out at her. He's hanging from the 
ceiling, a noose around his neck. His face is still flecked with blood. 
Various types of chains hang from the ceiling. Natalie pushes past 
Damon's body and into the small hallway. She comes to a door and pushes 
it open.


INT. ROOM


It's the room Natalie saw when she was buzzing for help. There are 
candles everywhere. The room is very dreary. Natalie walks into the 
room. She starts to look around. She gasps when she sees the bed in the 
center of the room. On the bed is...


BRENDA!


Her body is motionless. Natalie begins to sob. She sinks to the floor 
by the bed. She sobs uncontrollably.  Nothing matters any more. Her 
friends are dead. One of them might be the killer. Her whole world has 
been shattered. She's so lost in thought that she doesn't notice Brenda 
rise up from the bed. Natalie senses something and she turns just when 
Brenda punches her right in the face. Natalie falls to the floor, 
unconscious. Brenda slowly smiles.


FADE OUT


FADE IN


INT. ROOM


NATALIE'S POV


Brenda enters the room, wearing the parka. She comes toward Natalie and 
bends down. She rips the hood back.


          BRENDA
Gotcha!


She begins to unzip the parka.


NORMAL VIEW


Natalie is tied to the bed, duck tape over her mouth.


          BRENDA
I must say Natalie, you have proven your friendship to me. Coming all 
the way out here to rescue me...without even a little pepper spray to 
defend yourself. Very endearing.


Natalie mumbles something.


          BRENDA
Excuse me? I'm sorry, but I can't understand a thing you're saying, 
doll.


Natalie mumbles something again.


          BRENDA
          (chuckling)
Now, if I remove the gag, you've got to promise me that you won't 
scream. Lord knows I got enough of that with Sasha.


She waves to Natalie. Brenda laughs and tears the gag off.


          NATALIE
You're fucking crazy!


Brenda laughs. She gets up off the bed and walks over to the foot of 
the bed.


          BRENDA
I prefer the term "eccentric." But yeah, I guess you could say I'm a 
little nutty.


          NATALIE
Why?


          BRENDA
         (mimicking)
Why? Why? 
           (shouts)
Why? You still haven't figured it out, have you? Well, lucky for you, 
Miss Thing, I have a visual aid!


Brenda storms over to a table and grabs a remote to the projector. She 
hits the button. A picture appears on the wall. It shows Brenda wearing 
a bathing suit, standing next to a guy.


Brenda walks over to Natalie.


          BRENDA
There I am, Natalie, with my boyfriend. The love of my life. 


She grabs Natalie's head and pulls it close to her.


          BRENDA
            (cont'd)
Have you found the love of your life yet, Natalie? Of course not. 


She shoves Natalie's head back onto the bed.


          BRENDA
Too self involved to bother. Pic ring any bells, Nat?


The picture changes to show an article from a newspaper. There's a 
picture of Brenda's boyfriend. The headline reads: "Teen killed in 
apparent gang initiation." It's the man Natalie and Michelle killed!


          NATALIE
Oh my God.


          BRENDA
Ding, ding, ding, ding, ding! His name was David Evans.


Brenda walks over and stands in front of the picture.


          BRENDA
The one you and your friends decided to have a little fun with that 
night! You know, David and I were going to get married that summer, 
right after graduation. 


Tears begin to well up in Brenda's eyes. She tries to stop them.


          BRENDA
He didn't have enough money to buy me a ring yet, so he got me this 
instead.


She grabs the necklace and holds it. Her face turns angry, and she rips 
the necklace off her neck.


          BRENDA
The night you took him away from me!


She throws the necklace to the ground.


          NATALIE
Brenda, I wasn't--


          BRENDA
You weren't driving, but it was your car! And you were there, Natalie!


She takes in a lungful of air, calming down. She moves over to 
Natalie's side.


          BRENDA
Now, didn't you tell me you were having a little difficulty... 
forgiving yourself? Well, I thought, as a friend, I could help you out 
in that department.


She laughs insanely. Then, her demeanor gets cold.


          BRENDA
Payback's a bitch, isn't it, Natalie?


          NATALIE
Brenda, please, you need to get help.


          BRENDA
I have already tried therapy!


She walks around to the front of the bed and sticks her head in between 
two of the bars on the metal headboard.


          BRENDA
Obviously, it did me no good, Natalie. And I must say, I am kind of 
enjoying all of this. Playing with your pretty little head.


She shakes the bars, then moves away from the bed.


          BRENDA
You used an urban legend to kill my boyfriend, Natalie. And now--


          NATALIE
What are you going to do?


          BRENDA
Oh, just my favorite U.L.


She stands next to a table with a cloth covering it. She grabs the 
cloth and jerks it off, revealing two metal trays filled with medical 
equipment. Scalpels, knives, scissors...


          BRENDA
The kidney heist.


She grabs a scalpel off of a tray and whistles. She turns toward 
Natalie and waves the scalpel in front of her face.


          BRENDA
You do know this one, don't you, Natalie? A guy gets picked up by a 
woman at a bar. She takes him back to her hotel room. She fixes him a 
drink. Boom! He's knocked out. When he wakes up, he's in a bathtub full 
of ice and he realizes that one of his kidneys has been removed! 
Supposedly they sell them on the black market. I don't think it's ever 
actually happened, though. Until tonight.


She smiles wickedly.


INT. COP CAR


The gun sits beside Reese, who has her eyes on the road, looking for 
anyone suspicious.


EXT. STANLEY HALL


The cop car comes to a stop on the road beside Stanley Hall.


INT. COP CAR


Reese stares at Stanley Hall.


REESE'S POV


She looks at the light coming from the room near the top of Stanley 
Hall.


INT. STANLEY HALL/ROOM


Natalie struggles against her ropes.


          NATALIE
You'll never get away with this.


          BRENDA
Natalie, of course I will. I've got the perfect murderer in the trunk 
of Paul's car. Wexler!


          NATALIE
You're sick.


          BRENDA
Professor does away with his students and then kills himself in the 
same manner as the course he teaches. It's beautiful. It's so fucking 
clean, isn't it! Well, enough chat, Nat! Now, I am sorry, but I don't 
have any anesthesia. I guess you'll just have to bite down real hard on 
that gag and hope that you go into shock soon enough.


          NATALIE
            (crying)
Please don't do this.


          BRENDA
Oh. Don't you want to be an urban legend? All your friends are now.


Brenda grabs the gag and goes to put it on Natalie's mouth. When 
Brenda's hand comes into reach, Natalie bites down on it. Brenda jerks 
her hand back quickly.


          BRENDA
Ouch! Stupid bitch!


Brenda slaps Natalie across the face. Natalie begins to cry.


          BRENDA
I am really going to enjoy watching you bleed to death. 


She puts the gag onto Natalie's mouth.


          BRENDA
Now, is this the kidney?


She stabs the scalpel into Natalie's exposed abdomen. Natalie cries out 
in pain. Her scream is muffled by the gag.


          BRENDA
Or is that the liver? I was always such a dope in anatomy. Well, who 
cares, right? First organ I see, I'm just gonna grab it.


She stabs the scalpel back into the first wound she made, and begins 
slicing Natalie's stomach open. Natalie screams in agony, the pain so 
excruciating. Suddenly, Reese appears in the doorway, gun held out in 
front of her.


          REESE
Drop the weapon!


Brenda turns around in apparent disgust.


          BRENDA
Oh, great. Rent-a-cop to the rescue?


Brenda pulls the scalpel out of Natalie and drops it. Reese  walks 
toward her, and Brenda stands up.


          REESE
Hands up! Get against the wall, you looney, psycho bitch!


Brenda backs up toward the wall. Reese, with the gun still pointed at 
Brenda, bends down to Natalie and begins untying her.


          REESE
It's all right, sugar. Everything's gonna be okay.


Reese finishes untying one of Natalie's hands and moves toward Brenda.


          REESE
Move it! Move it!


Brenda backs up and turns to face the boarded up window. Reese begins 
checking her for weapons while Natalie starts untying her other arm.


          REESE
Don't you move.


Reese reaches into her pockets for her handcuffs. Suddenly, a knife 
appears in Brenda's hand and she screams. She spins around and slashes 
Reese across the chest. Reese goes down, dropping the gun and 
handcuffs. Reese falls to the ground. Natalie has gotten her other hand 
free and begins working on her feet. 


Brenda screams and jumps down on top of Reese. They struggle, both 
reaching out for the gun. They roll across the floor, screaming. 
Natalie has one of her legs free. She works quickly while Reese has 
Brenda occupied. Reese's hand grazes the butt of the gun, but Brenda 
jerks it back. She reaches out and grabs it. Before Reese can try and 
grab it away from her, Brenda shoots her point blank.


Natalie has finished untying herself and jumps off the bed. She begins 
racing for the door but Brenda stands up, pointing the gun at her.


          BRENDA
Don't you fucking move!


Natalie stops in her tracks.


          BRENDA
Shit. Bullet through the head. Not exactly an urban legend, but in the 
essence of time--


          NATALIE
It's not going to bring him back, Brenda. None of this--


          BRENDA
I know that, Natalie! But it will bring a devastated little Paul right 
into my arms. I'll have him, and he'll have his Pulitzer. What did you 
think, Natalie? That I was gonna let you take two men outta my life?


Suddenly, they hear applause. They both turn to see...


PAUL


enter the room!


          PAUL
Very well done.


He walks into the room and stands beside Natalie.


          PAUL
I couldn't have planned it better myself.


          BRENDA
Really?


          PAUL
Oh, yeah. I thought I was screwed after Natalie here fucked it up for 
me with the dean. But this. This is just what I need. A few things 
though, okay?


          BRENDA
I'm listening.


          PAUL
Well, I need some details for my articles. You know, about how Wexler 
did each one. Details only you could give me. 


          BRENDA
It would be great for your career. And we'd be so fuckin' hot together, 
Paul. 


          PAUL
And I'd be very grateful. So why don't you give me the gun? I'll take 
care of the rest.


A long silence. Brenda smiles.


          BRENDA
You're cute, Paul.


She raises the gun and points it at Paul.


          BRENDA
But you're not that fucking cute! 


She begins pointing the gun at Paul, then Natalie.


          BRENDA
So, which one of you do I kill first? Eenie, meenie, miney--


She points the gun straight at Natalie. Suddenly, a gun shot is heard. 
But it wasn't Brenda's gun. It was Reese firing the gun she had hidden. 
Brenda drops the gun and clutches her wounded arm. 


          REESE
Moe!


Reese collapses back onto the floor. Natalie bends down and picks up 
the gun. She aims it at Brenda.


          BRENDA
What, are you going to shoot me, Natalie? Huh? What kind of friend are 
you?


Natalie grips the gun tightly, determined. Brenda screams, and Natalie 
fires. The bullet rips into Brenda, sending her flying backwards. She 
crashes through the boarded up window.


EXT. STANLEY HALL


Brenda begins to fall.


INT. STANLEY HALL/ROOM


Natalie stares, stunned that she pulled the trigger and that Brenda 
actually flew through the window.


EXT. STANLEY HALL


Brenda continues to fall. She plummets to the ground.


INT. STANLEY HALL/ROOM


Natalie continues staring, breathing hard. 


          PAUL
Natalie, give me the gun.


He takes the gun out of her hand.


          PAUL
Come here.


He embraces her, not wanting to let her go.


          PAUL
Are you okay?


          NATALIE
            (crying)
No.


Before Paul can respond, Reese starts coughing. Paul lets go of Natalie 
and bends down toward Reese.


          PAUL
Reese.


Natalie bends down beside Paul.


          REESE
Thought I'd have to wait to be a cop before a bullet'd ever hit me.


          PAUL
Stay down. We're gonna go get help.


          REESE
All right. Quick.


Paul and Natalie stand up and leave the room. Reese groans in pain.


EXT. ROAD - LATER - NIGHT - RAINING


Paul's car is the only one on the road. 


          NATALIE
              (o.s.)
Do you think Reese will be all right?


          PAUL
           (o.s.)
Reese is gonna be fine. Paramedics are on their way.


INT. PAUL'S CAR


After a moments silence, Natalie speaks.


          NATALIE
This will become a legend, too, you know. It'll change a little from 
person to person, of course. Brenda'll become a guy, and you'll become 
a cop. And I'll probably  end up in an insane asylum.


          PAUL
If this is an urban legend--


In the backseat, an axe cones into view.


          PAUL
         (cont'd)
At what point do we get to the twist?


Brenda rises into view, fire burning in her eyes. She gets prepared to 
swing the axe. Paul looks into his rearview mirror and gasps. He grabs 
Natalie and pushes her head down. He ducks too, barely avoiding the axe 
as it swings inches above their heads, smashing into the door.


EXT. ROAD


The car swerves to the side of the road.


INT. CAR


Brenda swings the axe and hits Paul in the head with the flat side of 
it. He groans.


EXT. ROAD


The car swerves again.


INT. CAR


Brenda has grabbed Natalie and thrown her into the backseat. She 
presses the axe against Natalie's throat, trying to strangle her. 
Natalie has a grip on the axe, trying to push it away from her throat. 
Brenda is screaming wildly.


          PAUL
Natalie!


He reaches back and grabs Brenda's hair, pulling her toward him.


EXT. ROAD


The car continues to swerve left and right.


INT. CAR


Brenda jerks her head, and Paul loses his grip. Brenda's head falls 
back against the seat. Paul looks out his windshield, sees a bridge 
coming up. Brenda head-butts Natalie, sending her flying into the 
floorboard between the two front seats. Paul looks down at Natalie, 
then back at the road.


EXT. ROAD/BRIDGE


The car roars onto the bridge.


INT. CAR


Brenda raises the axe and prepares to hit Natalie with the shaft. Paul 
jerks the wheel.


EXT. BRIDGE


The car rams into one of the side rails, sending sparks flying.


INT. CAR


Brenda falls against the door. She rights herself and prepares to 
strike Natalie with the axe. Brenda screams in insanity. Natalie 
screams and puts her hand in front of her face. Paul jerks the wheel. 


EXT. BRIDGE


The car rams into a side railing. Brenda comes flying through the 
window, screaming. She falls past the railing and toward the frigid 
waters below. She lands with a splash.


INT. CAR


Paul helps Natalie out of the floorboard and into her seat. He stares 
out the broken windshield. He puts his hand on his head, the pain from 
where Brenda hit him with the axe still there.


EXT. BRIDGE


Natalie opens her door and climbs outside. Paul crawls over the seat 
and gets out of the car. He jogs over to the railing and looks down at 
the river.


PAUL'S POV


Brenda's body floats in the river. The currents slowly move it 
downstream.


NORMAL VIEW


Paul turns to Natalie, and they hug. It's a long hug. They don't let 
each other go, afraid that the other one might die. In the distance 
sirens can be heard. Natalie and Paul ignore them, wrapped in each 
other's loving arms.


FADE TO:


INT. ASHTON STUDENT UNION - DAY - ??? DAYS LATER


CLOSE ON:


A roaring fireplace.


          BLAKE
            (o.s.)
The river was such a mess because of the storm, it washed away the 
body. The thing of it is, they never found a body. It wasn't there.


NORMAL VIEW


BLAKE, a cute looking guy, sits on a couch next to DORKY GUY and TRENDY 
GIRL. Sitting on the other couch is JENNY, HIPPIE GUY, and a woman we 
can't see.


His friends break out laughing.


          TRENDY GIRL
Oh, bullshit.


          BLAKE
It's true. It happened right here at Ashton. I swear to God.


          HIPPIE GUY
Man, that is the stupid story you hear at every campus in the 
northeast.


          TRENDY GIRL
Exactly. I mean, where's your proof?


          BLAKE
Were you even listening? It all keeps getting covered up. Think about 
it. Who would enroll at Murder "U?" 


          DORKY GUY
Yeah, and you know what? Natalie, she's my old roommate's cousin.


          JENNY
And Brenda's the girl in that Noxzema commercial.


Trendy girl laughs.


          BLAKE
Does anybody here believe me?


          TRENDY GIRL
Not a chance, no.


          JENNY
No, Blake.


The woman who we can't see raises her hand.


          WOMAN
I believe you.


          BLAKE
Thank you.


The camera pans over to the woman. The woman is...BRENDA! She looks a 
little different, with more make-up and different style clothes, but it 
is her.


          BRENDA
But you didn't tell it right.


          BLAKE
I didn't?


          BRENDA
          (chuckles)
Not at all.


She leans forward.


          BRENDA
           (cont'd)
Okay, listen up, guys, 'cause this is how the story... really goes.


She smiles.


CUT TO BLACK


END CREDITS


CAST

PAUL                    Jared Leto

NATALIE               Alicia Witt

BRENDA               Rebecca Gayheart

PARKER               Michael Rosenbaum

SASHA               Tara Reid

REESE                    Loretta Devine

DAMON               Joshua Jackson

DEAN ADAMS          John Neville

PROFESSOR WEXLER     Robert Englund

MICHELLE MANCINI     Natasha Gregson Wagner

JANITOR               Julian Richings

TOSH                    Danielle Harris

ATTENDANT               Brad Dourif

DAVID EVANS          Vince Corrazza

NERDY GUY               Balazs Koos

BLAKE               Danny Comden     

JENNY               Nancy McAlear

TRENDY GIRL          Danielle Brett

HIPPIE GUY               Shawn Mathieson

DORKY GUY               Cle Benett     






