year	1992
imdb score	7.3
meta score	90
genre	Crime
genre	Drama
genre	Romance
genre	Thriller
keyword	soldier
keyword	hairdresser
keyword	escape
keyword	friendship
keyword	irish republican army
keyword	vomiting after sex
keyword	unlikely friendship
keyword	love affair
keyword	male on male oral sex
keyword	interracial relationship
keyword	psychological drama
keyword	hostage
keyword	n word
keyword	twisted love
keyword	male frontal nudity
keyword	deception
keyword	impersonation
keyword	platonic love
keyword	sex
keyword	lesbian slur
keyword	scorpion
keyword	ireland
keyword	chase in the woods
keyword	freak accident
keyword	stockholm syndrome
keyword	terrorism
keyword	revenge
keyword	famous twist
keyword	stalking
keyword	vomit
keyword	controversy
keyword	title based on song
keyword	tied to a bed
keyword	romantic misunderstanding
keyword	sexuality
keyword	nudity
keyword	african anglo
keyword	false identification
keyword	penis
keyword	blood splatter
keyword	gay
keyword	crying
keyword	doomed romance
keyword	transvestite
keyword	gender bending
keyword	fable
keyword	bmw
keyword	bisexuality
keyword	political thriller
keyword	bible quote
keyword	person in hiding
keyword	secret life
keyword	interracial romance
keyword	northern ireland
keyword	f word
keyword	suicide attempt
keyword	critically acclaimed
keyword	long hair
keyword	assassination plot
keyword	loyalty
keyword	actual animal killed
keyword	gay bar
keyword	shootout
keyword	assassination
keyword	prison
keyword	construction worker
keyword	transvestism
keyword	sexual disgust
keyword	amusement park
keyword	guinness
keyword	fatal attraction
keyword	london england
keyword	surprise
keyword	tragic love
keyword	redemption
keyword	three word title
keyword	haunted by the past
keyword	kidnapping
keyword	sexual thriller
keyword	accidental death
keyword	burned with a cigarette
keyword	frog
keyword	promise
keyword	traffic accident
keyword	machine gun
keyword	sexual orientation
keyword	violence against women
keyword	urination
keyword	love at first sight
keyword	independent film
keyword	surprise ending
keyword	plot twist
cast	Forest Whitaker	Jody
cast	Miranda Richardson	Jude
cast	Stephen Rea	Fergus
cast	Adrian Dunbar	Maguire
cast	Breffni McKenna	Tinker
cast	Joe Savino	Eddie
cast	Birdy Sweeney	Tommy
cast	Jaye Davidson	Dil
cast	Andr√©e Bernard	Jane
cast	Jim Broadbent	Col
cast	Ralph Brown	Dave
cast	Tony Slattery	Deveroux
cast	Jack Carr	Franknum
cast	Josephine White	Bar Performer 1
cast	Shar Campbell	Bar Performer 2
cast	Bryan Coleman	Judge
cast	Ray De-Haan	Security Man 1
cast	David Crionelly	Security Man 2
