Plan 9 from Outer Space

[TITLE: "Criswell Predicts..."]

CRISWELL
Greetings, my friend. We are all interested in the future, for that is where you 
and I are going to spend the rest of our lives. And remember my friend, future 
events such as these will affect you in the future. You are interested in the 
unknown, the mysterious, the unexplainable. That is why you are here. And now, 
for the first time, we are bringing to you the full story of what happened on 
that fateful day. We are giving you all the evidence, based only on the secret 
testimonies of the miserable souls who survived this terrifying ordeal. The 
incidents, the places, my friend we cannot keep this a secret any longer. Let us 
punish the guilty, let us reward the innocent. My friend, can your heart stand 
the shocking facts about grave robbers from outer space?

[TITLE SEQUENCE]

[SMALL FUNERAL, EVERYONE COMPLETELY SILENT]

CRISWELL
All of us on this earth, know that there is a time to live, and that there is a 
time to die, yet death is always a shock to those left behind. It is even more 
of a shock, when death, the proud brother, comes suddenly without warning.  Just 
at sundown, a small group, gathered in silent prayer around the newly-opened 
grave of the beloved wife of an elderly man. Sundown of the day, yet also the 
sundown of the old man's heart, for the shadows of grief clouded his very 
reason. The funeral over, the saddened group left the graveside. It was when the 
gravediggers started their task that strange things began to take place.

[INSIDE COCKPIT OF AIRPLANE, TWO PILOTS]

DANNY
Fifteen to four. Yup, right on schedule. There's the ol' San Fernando Valley out 
there now.

JEFF
You better radio in for landing instructions, Danny.

DANNY
Right, Jeff. Burbank Tower, this is American Flight 812, over. Wouldn't surprise 
me any if  he's asleep this time of the morning.

OPERATOR
American Flight 812, this is Burbank Tower. If I were asleep you'd never get on 
the ground! Your case maybe you'd be up there for good. Over.

DANNY
You got me that time, Mac. This American Flight 812 requesting -

[COCKPIT SHAKES, PILOTS LOOK OUT WINDOW TO SEE A FLYING SAUCER]

OPERATOR
Burbank Tower to American Flight 812, over. Burbank Tower to American Flight 
812, over.

DANNY
Holy mackeral.

OPERATOR
Burbank Tower to American Flight 812, are you in trouble?

[ENTER FLIGHT ATTENDANT]

EDITH
Trouble?

DANNY
Take a look for yourself.

EDITH
What in the world...

DANNY
That's nothing from this world.

OPERATOR
Burbank Tower to American Flight 812, are you in trouble? Are you in trouble?

DANNY
Mayday, mayday. Stand by, Burbank Tower.

JEFF
Do you suppose the passengers saw it?

EDITH
I doubt it. Most of them are asleep. But it was quite a jolt, Jeff. I'll check.

JEFF
Good. We'll get them ready for landing. Keep it quiet until we get instructions.

EDITH
Right.


JEFF
Okay Danny.

DANNY
American Flight 812 reporting to Burbank Tower, over.

[SHOT OF FLYING SAUCER]

[CEMETERY, TWO GRAVEDIGGERS]

GRAVEDIGGER #1
D'you hear anything

GRAVEDIGGER #2
I thought I did.

GRAVEDIGGER #1
Don't like hearin' noises. 'Specially when there ain't s'posed to be any.

GRAVEDIGGER #2
Yeah, sorta spooky-like.

GRAVEDIGGER #1
Maybe we're getting' old.

GRAVEDIGGER #2 
Whatever it is it's gone now.

GRAVEDIGGER #1 
That's the best thing for us too. Gone.

GRAVEDIGGER #2
Yeah, let's go.

[THEY BEGIN TO WALK AWAY, ARE GREETED BY VAMPIRA, WHO SOMEHOW MANAGES TO KILL 
THEM BOTH FROM TEN FEET AWAY]

GRAVEDIGGER #1 & 2
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah!





[EXTERNAL SHOT OF HOUSE, OLD MAN WALKS OUT]

CRISWELL
The grief of his wife's death became greater and greater agony. The home they 
had so long shared together, became a tomb. A sweet memory of her joyous living. 
The sky to which she had once looked, was now only a covering for her dead body. 
The ever-beautiful flowers she had planted with her own hand, became nothing 
more than the lost roses of her cheeks. Confused by his great loss, the old man 
left that home, never to return again. 

[MAN WALKS OFF-SCREEN AND IS IT HIT BY A CAR] 

[CEMETERY, NIGHTTIME]

CRISWELL
At the funeral of the old man, unknown to his mourners, his dead wife was 
watching.

WOMAN MOURNER
First his wife, then he. 

MAN MOURNER
Tragic.

WOMAN MOURNER
Tell me something. Why was his wife buried in the ground, and he sealed in a 
crypt?

MAN MOURNER
Something to do with family tradition. A superstition of some sort.

WOMAN MOURNER
Oh.

MAN MOURNER
Well, it's getting' dark. We'd best be on our way.

CRISWELL
Then, as two of his mourners left his final resting place.

[WOMAN DISCOVERS THE BODIES OF THE GRAVEDIGGERS]

WOMAN MOURNER
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaah! Look!!


[OUTSIDE OF POLICE STATION, MEN GETTING INTO CAR]

[BACK TO CEMETERY]

CRISWELL
Minutes later, the police, lead by Inspector Daniel Clay, arrived at the scene.

CLAY
Who found him?

PATROLMAN LARRY
The man and girl. 

CLAY
Medical, uh, examiner been 'round yet?

PATROLMAN LARRY
Just left. The morgue wagon oughta be along most any time.

CLAY
You get their statement?

PATROLMAN LARRY
Yeah, much as we could. They're pretty scared.

CLAY 
Finding a mess like this oughta make anyone frightened. Have one of the boys 
take the guy and the girl back to town. You take charge.

LIEUTENANT HARPER
Okay Inspector. What're you gonna do?

CLAY
Look around a little.

LT. HARPER
Once you get beyond those lights you won't be able to see your hand in front of 
your face.

CLAY
I will get one of the flashlights from the patrol car.

LT. HARPER
You be careful Clay.

CLAY
I'm a big boy now, Johnny.

[CLAY WALKS THROUGH GRAVEYARD]

[BACK TO CRIME SCENE]

LT. HARPER
Looks like a bobcat tore through them.

PATROLMAN LARRY
Say Lieutenant, d'you get that funny odour?

LT. HARPER
How could I miss it? [SIREN] Oh, that'll be the morgue wagon now.

[OUTSIDE THE TRENT HOUSE, PAULA AND JEFF TRENT ARE SITTING ON THE PATIO]

PAULA
That's the fifth siren in the last hour. 

JEFF
Oh, something's happened down at the cemetery. A lot of police cars and lights. 
I stopped but I didn't see anything. Oh well, whatever it is, the morning paper 
will carry the whole story.

PAULA
You seem to still be up there somewhere.

JEFF
Maybe I am.

PAULA
I don't think I've ever seen you in this mood before.

JEFF
I guess it's because I've never been in this mood before.

PAULA
Something about your flight?

JEFF
Yeah.

PAULA
What happened, Jeff?


JEFF
I saw a flying saucer.

PAULA
A saucer? You mean the kind from up there?

JEFF
Yeah, or its counterpart. I was shaped like a huge cigar. Dan [something] saw it 
too. When it passed over, the whole compartment lighted up with a blinding 
glare. Then there was a tremendous wind that practically knocked us off our 
course.

PAULA
Well did you report it?

JEFF
Yeah, radioed in immediately and they said well keep it quiet until you land. 
Then as soon as we landed, big army brass grabbed us and made us swear to 
secrecy about the whole thing. Oh, it burns me up. These things have been seen 
for years. They're here, it's a fact. And the public oughta know about it.

PAULA
There must be something more you can do about it.

JEFF
Oh no there isn't. Oh, but what's the point of making a fuss. Last night I saw a 
flying object that couldn't possibly have been from this planet. But I can't say 
a word. I'm muzzled by army brass! I can't even admit I saw the thing!

[BACK TO GRAVEYARD, CLAY IS ATTACKED BY GHOUL MAN AND VAMPIRA, FIRES A FEW 
SHOTS, AND IS ULTIMATELY SNUFFED, AS WE SAY]

[BACK TO CRIME SCENE]

LT. HARPER
Sounds like Clay's in trouble.

PATROLMAN LARRY
Bet that apparition we saw had something to do with it. 

LT. HARPER
Come on. [THEY RUN OFF-SCREEN AND EVENTUALLY FIND CLAY. LARRY CHECKS HIS PULSE] 
Is he dead?

PATROLMAN LARRY
Yeah. He's messed up as bad as those two back there. S'pose that saucer or 
whatever it was had something to do with this?

LT. HARPER
Your guess is as good as mine, Larry. But one thing's sure. Inspector Clay is 
dead...murdered...and somebody's responsible!

LARRY
You're in charge now, Lieutenant.

LT. HARPER
Yeah, guess I am. Kelton. 

KELTON
Yes Sir?

LT. HARPER
Get back up to the car and get on the radio. Tell the coroner he's gotta make 
another trip out here.

KELTON
Well how 'bout the lab boys?

LT. HARPER
Well who do you think we left back at the car, boy scouts? Come on, Larry.

[CLAY'S FUNERAL]

REV. LYNN LEMON
Greater love hath no man, than to lay down his life for another. It is always 
difficult to have last words over the grave of a friend. And Inspector Daniel 
Clay was a friend. A dear friend to me and to all of us. The bell has rung upon 
his great career. Now we lay him to rest. A rest well deserved, but so 
premature.

[SEQUENCE IN WHICH UFOs FLY OVER HOLLYWOOD, AND PEOPLE GET SCARED. THEN WE GO TO 
WASHINGTON, WHERE COL. EDWARDSONEL EDWARDS LOOKS THROUGH HIS BINOCULARS AS STOCK 
FOOTAGE FROM WWII SHOWS MEN FIRING LARGE ROCKETS THAT WHEN FIRED AT THE UFOs 
SEEM TO BE NO MORE THAN FIRECRACKERS. ALL THE WHILE CRISWELL IS GIVING ONE OF 
HIS SPEECHES.]

CRISWELL
People turning south from the freeway were startled when they saw three flying 
saucers high over Hollywood Boulevard. A woman, startled by the sight in the 
sky, telephones the police. There comes a time in each man's life, when he can't 
even believe his own eyes. Saucers seen over Hollywood! Flying saucers seen over 
Washington D.C. The army convoy moved into the field. Rockets were quickly set 
up. COL. EDWARDSonel Tom Edwards, in charge of saucer field activities, was to 
make the greatest decision of his career. He made that decision. COL. 
EDWARDSonel Edwards gave the signal to fire. Then as swiftly as they had come, 
they were gone. Even to the piercing eye of radar and the speeding jet fighters.

ARMY GUY
Quite a sight, wasn't it Sir.

EDWARDS
A sight I'd rather not be seeing.

ARMY GUY
Are you worried about them Sir?

EDWARDS
Well, they must have a reason for their visits.

ARMY GUY
Visits? Well that would indicate visitors! Are big guns the usual way of 
welcoming visitors?

EDWARDS
We haven't always fired at them.

ARMY GUY
Oh?

EDWARDS
For a time we tried to contact them by radio, but no response. Then they 
attacked a town. A small town, I'll admit. But nevertheless a town of people. 
People who died.

ARMY GUY
I never heard about that Sir.

EDWARDS
Well, it was covered up by the higher echelon. Take any fire, any earthquake, 
any major disaster, then wonder. Flying saucers, Captain, are still a rumour. 
Officially.


CAPTAIN
Looks like we beat them off again Sir.

EDWARDS
What do they want...where are they from...where are they going...

CAPTAIN
They, Sir? Who? Oh, this is a training manoeuver, Sir. We only did a little 
practice firing at the clouds.

EDWARDS
Yeah. I wonder what their next move will be.

CRISWELL
What will their next move be? 

[INSIDE SPACESHIP, TWO MEN...er- TWO "ALIENS", ONE SITTING]

MESSENGER
Your space commander has returned from Earth.

RULER
Send him in. 

[ENTER EROS AND TANNA]

RULER
You have your report?

EROS
We had to pull in here to Space Station 7 for regeneration. We're returning to 
the planet Earth immediately thereafter.

RULER
What progress has been made?

EROS
We contacted government officials. They refuse over existence.

RULER
What plan will you follow now?

EROS
Plan 9. It's been absolutely impossible to work through these Earth creatures. 
Their soul is too controlled.

RULER
Plan 9...ah yes. Plan 9 deals with the resurrection of the dead. Long-distance 
electrodes shot into the pinion pituitary glands of recent dead. Have you 
attempted any of this plan as yet?

EROS
Yes Excellency. 


RULER
How successful has it been?

EROS
We have risen two so far. We shall be just as successful on more.

RULER
The living...they have no suspicion of your movements?

EROS
We had to dispose of one policeman. However, none of those risen have been seen. 
At least, not by anyone who still remains alive.

RULER
It's too bad it must be handled this way. However it must. Those who take from 
the grave will lead the way for our other operations.

EROS
Yes, Excellency.

RULER
Continue on. Report to me in two Earth days.

[JUST OUTSIDE FIRST ROOM]

TANNA
I feared His Excellency wouldn't take our report this well.

EROS
Well had he been dealing with our own people his reaction would have been 
completely different. He understands the difficulties of the Earth race.

TANNA
What do you think will be the next obstacle the Earth people will put in our 
way?

EROS
Well, as long as they can think we'll have our problems. But those whom we're 
using cannot think. They are the dead. Brought to a simulated life by our 
electrode guns. You know, it's an interesting think when you consider...the 
Earth people, who can think, are so frightened by those who cannot: the dead. 
Well our ship should be regenerated. We better get started.

[OUTSIDE TRENT HOUSE]

JEFF
I still think you oughta go in town and stay with your mother until I get back.

PAULA
This is our home and nothing's going to take me from it. Besides, most men try 
and keep their wives from going home to Momma. 

JEFF
That's not the point.

PAULA
That's all the point there's going to be. Now toddle off and fly your flying 
machine, Darling. But if you see any more flying saucers, will you tell them to 
pick another house to buzz? Don't worry about me.

JEFF
Oh you're the only thing I do worry about. Oh forget about the flying saucers. 
They're up there. But there's something in that cemetery, and that's too close 
for comfort.

PAULA
The saucers are up there. And the cemetery's out there. But I'll be locked up in 
there. Now off to your wild blue yonders.

JEFF
You promise you'll lock the doors immediately?

PAULA
I promise. Besides, I'll be in bed before half an hour is gone, with your pillow 
beside me.

JEFF
My pillow?

PAULA
Well, I have to have something to keep me company while you're away. Sometimes 
in the night when it does get a little lonely, I reach over and touch it, then 
it doesn't seem so lonely anymore. 

JEFF
A crazy kid. I do love you, Darlin'. See you Thursday.

PAULA
Goodbye, Honey.

JEFF
You know I'm not leaving here until you're locked safely inside.

PAULA
All right, Darling. If you're especially nice I may even lock the side door.

JEFF
And be sure you keep the yard lights on.

[COCKPIT, SAME AS BEFORE]

DANNY
You're mighty silent this trip, Jeff.

JEFF
Huh?

DANNY
You haven't spoken ten words since takeoff. 

JEFF
I guess I'm preoccupied, Danny.

DANNY
We've got thirty-three passengers back there that have time to be preoccupied. 
Flying this flybird doesn't give you that opportunity. 

JEFF
I guess you're right, Danny.

DANNY
Paula?

JEFF
Yeah.

DANNY
There's nothing wrong between you two?

JEFF
Oh no, nothing like that.  Just that I'm worried, she being there alone and 
those strange things flying over the house and those incidents in the graveyard 
the past few days. It's just got me worried.

DANNY
Well, I haven't figured out those crazy skybirds yet but I give you fifty to one 
odds the police have figured out that cemetery thing by now.

[ENTER EDITH]


JEFF
I hope so.

EDITH
If you're really that worried Jeff why don't you radio in and find out? Mac 
should be on duty at the field by now. He could call Paula and relay the message 
to you. 

DANNY
Hi Edith.

EDITH
Hi Silents. I haven't heard a word from this end of the plane since we left the 
field.

DANNY
Jeff's been giving me and himself a study in silence.

EDITH 
You boys are feudin'?

JEFF
Oh no Edie, nothing like that.

DANNY
Hey Edie, how about you and me balling [bawling?] it up in Albuquerque?

EDITH
Albuquerque? Have you read that flight schedule Boy?

DANNY
What about it?

EDITH
We land in Albuquerque at 4 am. That's strictly a nine o'clock town.

DANNY
Well I know a friend that'll help us --

EDITH
Let's have a problem first, huh Danny. [?]

DANNY
Ah he's worried about Paula.

EDITH
I read about that cemetery business. I tried to get you kids to not buy too near 
one of those things. We get there soon enough as it is. 

DANNY
He thought it'd be quiet and peaceful there.

EDITH
No doubt about that. It's quiet alright, like a tomb. I'm sorry Jeff, that was a 
bad joke. Say., I almost forgot what I came in here for. How's the coffee 
situation?

DANNY
Mmmm that's for me.

JEFF
That sure wouldn't hurt anything, Edie.

EDITH
Okay, I'll be right back. And say Jeff, make that call to your wife. 

DANNY
Huh, not only will she throw water on my Albuquerque plan but now she's 
repeating herself. How 'bout that Albuquerque ball?

EDITH
I can't resist your charm, Danny Boy.

[LIGHTNING, THEN WE GO TO A CEMETERY AND A MAN WALKS OUT...THE FAMOUS BELA 
FOOTAGE]

CRISWELL
Residents near the cemetery paid little attention to the blast of thunder and 
the flash of lightning.  But from the blast, arose the moving figure of the dead 
old man. 

[INSIDE MRS. TRENT'S BEDROOM]

PAULA
Hello? Who? Mac? Well, hi Mac! Sure I'm all right. I just fell asleep. Tell Jeff 
I'm all right. Okay Mac. Thanks for calling. Goodnight.

[SEQUENCE DURING WHICH BELA AND HIS "DOUBLE" ENTER THE TRENT HOUSE AND CHASE 
PAULA INTO THE GRAVEYARD, WHERE WE SEE CLAY CLIMB OUT OF HIS GRAVE AND THEN 
ATTACK PAULA, WITH VAMPIRA AT HIS SIDE. EVENTUALLY, PAULA FINDS HER WAY OUT OF 
THE GRAVEYARD, AND MUST HAVE GONE THROUGH SOME SORT OF A TIME VORTEX BECAUSE IT 
IS NOW DAYTIME. A FARMER COMES TO HER AID]

FARMER
Mrs. Trent! Mrs. Trent! What's wrong?
[FARMER PICKS HER UP, PUTS HER IN HIS CAR, STARTS IT UP AND DRIVES AWAY]

[INSIDE SMALLER SHIP]

EROS
They'll be at the hatch in a moment. You can open it now, Tanna. Turn off the 
electrodes quickly. They can't tell us from anyone else.

[CEMETERY, TWO POLICEMEN]

JAMIE
It's tough to find something when you don't know what you're looking for.

KELTON
I don't think the Lieutenant does either.

JAMIE
Then what're doing out here? I was off duty an hour ago.

KELTON
Ah don't ask me any questions. I'm just a hardhand [hat? head?] just like you.

[DIFFERENT PART OF CEMETERY]

LARRY
What do you suppose that noise was?

LT. HARPER
Whatever it was it's no more strange than the other things happening around this 
cemetery.

LARRY
Spirits like Old Farmer Caulder talked about.

LT. HARPER
Heh. Maybe.

LARRY
The only spirits he saw tonight were those I smelled on his breath.

LT. HARPER
Well don't forget Mrs. Trent claims to have seen them too. She didn't have 
anything on her breath.


LARRY
She was hysterical.

LT. HARPER
Well true, she was frightened, and in a state of shock. But, don't forget that 
torn nightgown and the scratched feet.

LARRY
Yeah I hadn't thought of that. I guess that's why you're a detective lieutenant 
and I'm still a uniformed cop. 

LT. HARPER
Sometimes it's only the breaks, Larry. In the meantime let's get-

[KELTON AND JAMIE COME RUNNING IN]

KELTON
Lieutenant, Lieutenant! Did you hear that?

LARRY
How could we help it?

POLICEMAN
It sure was strange.

KELTON
Know what it was?

LT. HARPER
No more than you do.

POLICEMAN
If it weren't for orders I'd get out of here right now.

LT. HARPER
It was a saucer.

POLICEMAN
A flying saucer?

LARRY
What makes you say that?


LT. HARPER
You remember the noise we heard the other night?

LARRY
We were knocked to the ground, how could I forget?

LT. HARPER
Exactly, but you're not remembering that sound.

LARRY
There you're wrong, Lieutenant. I'm with a fact the sound is similar, but what 
about the blinding light?

LT. HARPER
Well haven't you heard? Many times a saucer hasn't had a glow, or a light of any 
kind for that matter. 

LARRY
That proves it. What next Lietenant?

KELTON
Maybe this doesn't mean much, but uh Jamie and me found a grave that looks like 
it's been busting into.

 LT. HARPER
What? Where?

KELTON
Why uh why...

LT. HARPER
Come on man out with it, we haven't got all day to waste.

KELTON
Uh, just over there beyond the crypt.

LT. HARPER
All right, show us the way!

[CLAY'S GRAVE]

KELTON
Look, here it is Lieutenant.

LT. HARPER
Ah it's been broken into all right.



LARRY
Strange. If someone had broken in, the dirt should be piled up here somewhere. 
It looks like it's fallen in into the grave.

LT. HARPER
Larry you'll be out of that uniform before you know it.

LARRY
Do we have the right to look down there Lieutenant?

LT. HARPER
Ah, technically no.

LARRY
No?

LT. HARPER
Well, this spot looks familiar, though. We shouldn't investigate any further 
without the permission of  next of kin.

KELTON
Let's go get it!

LT. HARPER
How?

LARRY
I see what you mean, the gravestone's down there.

LT. HARPER
Well, let's go down and find out who's grave it is.

KELTON
How?

LT. HARPER
By going down and finding out!

KELTON
Are you sure you mean that Lieutenant?

LT. HARPER
If I didn't mean it I wouldn't have said it.

LARRY
Scared?

KELTON
Well, why do I always get hooked up with these spook details? Monsters, graves, 
bodies,...oooh all right. [ENTERS GRAVE] Casket's here, but nobody's in it.

LT. HARPER
Can you read the name on the casket?

KELTON
It's too dark. Give me a flashlight.

LT. HARPER
How 'bout a match?

KELTON
We sure could try it. Let me have them! It's Inspector Clay's grave! Be he ain't 
in it!

[AERIAL SHOT OF PENTAGON]

CRISWELL
But meanwhile, in the Pentagon, in Washington DC...

[INSIDE AN OFFICE, MAN SITTING BEHIND DESK]

GENERAL ROBERTS
Try G2...[KNOCK AT DOOR]...come in! Yes of course, I'll keep in touch. Come in, 
COL. EDWARDSonel Edwards. Close the door. At ease, COL. EDWARDSonel.

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
Thank you, Sir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
Sit down. I understand, COL. EDWARDSonel, you've been on tap for many of our 
saucer attacks.

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
I'm in charge of field operations, Sir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
You believe there are such things as flying saucers, COL. EDWARDSonel?

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
Yessir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
You've seen them?

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
Yessir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
You realize there's a government directive stating that there is no such thing 
as a flying saucer?

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
Yessir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
Do you stand by your statement that you've seen flying saucers?

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
Well, uh, yessir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
This could mean a court marshall. Admitting this against direct orders.

COL. EDWARDS. EDWARDS
General Roberts, may I speak freely?

GENERAL ROBERTS
You may.

COL. EDWARDS
How could I hope to hold down my command if I didn't believe in what I saw and 
shot at? 

GENERAL ROBERTS
I, uh,  like you Colonel.

COL. EDWARDS
Thank you, Sir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
There are flying saucers. There's no doubt they are in our skies. They've been 
there for some time. 

COL. EDWARDS
What're we going to do about them? 


GENERAL ROBERTS
Who knows?

COL. EDWARDS
Then, uh, they really are there?

GENERAL ROBERTS
I thought you were convinced of that!

COL. EDWARDS
I am.

GENERAL ROBERTS
We've had contact with them.

COL. EDWARDS
Contact? How?

GENERAL ROBERTS
Radio.

COL. EDWARDS
They speak our language?

 GENERAL ROBERTS
Well not quite. We  received messages from their space ships.  For a while it 
came in as just a lot of jumbled noise.

COL. EDWARDS
And now, Sir?

GENERAL ROBERTS 
Well since they first uh tried contact with us by radio, we've developed a 
language computer. A machine that breaks down any language to our own. 

COL. EDWARDS
General, uh,  what's this all got to do with me?

GENERAL ROBERTS
Well you've been in charge of saucer field activity for a long while.  I think 
it's about time you heard these recordings. Do you mind?

COL. EDWARDS
Mind? Huh, I'm anxious!

[GENERAL ROBERTS PLAYS THE RECORDING]
VOICE ON RECORDING
This is Eros, a space soldier from a planet of your galaxy.  I fully realize our 
language differences, however I also know you finally  have perfected the 
dictorobitary, or as you on Earth put it, the language computer.  So you can now 
understand that which I speak. Since the beginning of your time, we have been 
far beyond your planet. It has taken you centuries to even grasp what we 
developed eons of your years ago. Do you still believe it impossible we exist? 
You didn't actually think you were the only inhabited planet in the universe? 
How can any race be so stupid? Permit me to set your mind at ease.  We do not 
want to conquer your planet. Only save it. We could have destroyed it long ago, 
if that had been our aim. Our principal purpose is friendly. I admit, we have 
had to take certain means which you might refer to as criminal, but that is 
because of your big guns which have destroyed some of our representatives.  If 
you persist in denying us our landings,  then we must only accept that you do 
not want us on friendly terms. We then have no alternative but to destroy you 
before you destroy us.  With your ancient, juvenile minds, you have developed 
explosives too fast for your minds to conceive what you were doing.  You are on 
the verge of destroying the entire universe. We are part of that universe. This 
is our last -

GENERAL ROBERTS
That's the end of that one. Atmospheric conditions in outer space often 
interfere with transmitting.

COL. EDWARDS
How many of these recordings do you have General?

GENERAL ROBERTS
An even dozen up to now. This was the last one. We received it over a month ago.

COL. EDWARDS
Do you think they mean business?

GENERAL ROBERTS
We can't afford to take any chances. Come over here. You ever been to Hollywood?

COL. EDWARDS
Oh a couple of times. A few years ago. 

GENERAL ROBERTS
You're going to be there in the morning. Just a few minutes from Hollywood, in 
the town of San Fernando, reports have come in of saucers flying so low the 
exhaust  knocked people to the ground. There have even been stated claims of 
saucer landings. Major Carlson will replace you while you're out there. You're 
the best man for the job of attempting to contact them. Find them, Colonel. See 
what in hell it is they want!


COL. EDWARDS
All right, Sir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
These are confidential reports, Colonel. Read them over carefully on the plane,  
turn them over to intelligence when you get to Los Angeles. They'll have further 
orders for disposition. 

COL. EDWARDS
Yessir.

GENERAL ROBERTS
Colonel Edwards?

COL. EDWARDS
Yessir?

GENERAL ROBERTS 
Good luck.

COL. EDWARDS
Thank you, Sir.

[INSIDE MOTHER SHIP]

EROS
We are ready to report, Excellency.

RULER
You are many days late.

EROS
It was unavoidable. We tried to transmit via televisor, but atmospheric 
conditions made transmission impossible.

RULER
You should have transmitted as soon as conditions permitted.

EROS
I thought time was of the essence. Suspicion  has fallen upon our movements. Our 
ships have been viewed near the point of operations.

RULER
And what has this extra time gained, Eros?


EROS
We have successfully risen three of the dead ones.

RULER
Permit me to see one.

EROS
[TO TANNA] Bring in the big one. Use your small electrode gun.

RULER
I have taken two ships from your command.

EROS
But...that will leave only my ship!

RULER
It is necessary that you continue your mission alone. I have need of your other 
ships elsewhere. Even though you have risen three of the Earth dead, the plan is 
far from successful, and you Eros, must prove it an operational success before 
more time, energy, and ships, may be spent on it.

EROS
We will not fail. Everything is on our side.

RULER
Not everything! You do not have the live Earth people! You report that your ship 
was viewed at scene of your present operations? 

EROS
That is correct.

RULER
They have been viewed many times, but not at the scene of operations. Something 
must be done about that.

[TANNA BRINGS IN CLAY, WHO IMMEDIATELY STARTS AFTER EROS]

EROS
Stop him Tanna! He's close enough! Turn off your electrode gun! No! No! Stop him 
Tanna!

TANNA
I can't get it, it's jammed!

EROS
Stop him you fool!

RULER
Drop the gun to the floor, Tanna! The metal will break contact!

EROS
[Gasping] That was too close!

RULER
Yes. Bring the giant here that I may get a better look at him.  Yes, he's a fine 
specimen. Are they all this powerful on planet Earth?

EROS
This one is an exception, Excellency.

RULER
What are the other two like?

EROS
One is a woman, the other an old man.

RULER
An old man, you say?

EROS
Yes, Excellency.

RULER
This gives me a plan. Put the big one away.

EROS
Pick up your electrode gun. Make sure it's in working order before pointing it 
at him.

TANNA
Whatever made it jam must have been cleared by the fall.

EROS
Take him back to the ship.

RULER
The old one must be sacrificed. Re-land on Earth. Send the old one to enter a 
dwelling. Then cut off the electrokinetic and turn on your ship's decomposure 
ray.  The result will astound those watching. Astound them enough to delay their 
attention until you have gained your other recruits from the cemetery.

EROS
Yes, Excellency. It'll be done.

RULER
Report to me when this has been accomplished. Eros, the Earth people are getting 
to that which we fear. Since they will not listen or respect our existence, they 
cannot help but believe our powers when they see their own dead walking 'round 
again, brought about by our advancement in such things.  As soon as you have 
enough of the dead recruits, march them on the capitals of the Earth, let 
nothing stand in your way. Their own dead will be used to make them accept our 
existence, and believe in that fact.

[OUTSIDE TRENT HOUSE CAR PULLS UP WITH LT. HARPER, KELTON, AND COLONEL EDWARDS]

LT. HARPER
Mr. and Mrs. Trent...this is Colonel Edwards from Washington DC.

PAULA
Good evening, Colonel.

JEFF
Hello Colonel. 

LT. HARPER
Colonel would like to ask you a few questions. 

JEFF
Questions? What about, Colonel?

COL. EDWARDS
May I, uh, sit down?

PAULA
Oh, I'm sorry, please do.

COL. EDWARDS
I want to ask you about your strange experience the other night, when you saw 
the flying saucer.

[SHOT OF FLYING SAUCER, BASICALLY SO WE DON'T HAVE TO HEAR WHAT HAPPENED AGAIN]

PAULA
After that the police brought me home. I hope I never see such a sight again.




COL. EDWARDS
Well after your description I don't think I'd want to see it either. One thing 
more...after you were forced to the ground by that blast of wind, was it a hot 
or cold blast?

JEFF
It's kind of hard to explain. It wasn't hot, wasn't cold, it was just a terrific 
force. We-we couldn't get off the ground. 

PAULA
The light blinded me so badly I couldn't see a thing. We could only feel the 
pressure of the wind, until it was gone.When the glare left us, we could see a 
glowing ball disappearing off in the distance.

COL. EDWARDS
Which way?

PAULA
Toward the cemetery.

COL. EDWARDS
This is the most fantastic story I've ever heard.

JEFF
And every word of it's true, too.

COL. EDWARDS
That's the fantastic part of it. 

LT. HARPER
We found a lot of suspicious things out in that cemetery. Then again, didn't 
find anything to base a fact or suspicion on. Hey, do you hear anything. You see 
anything out there Kelton?

KELTON
Too dark, Lieutenant. But something's started stinking awful bad.

JEFF
There's something out there.

[OLD MAN WALKS OUT, THEY SHOOT AT IT. THE SHIP TURNS ON ITS DECOMPOSURE RAY, AND 
THE GHOUL IS REDUCED TO A PILE OF BONES]

COL. EDWARDS
What do you make of that?


LT. HARPER
You got me! It didn't look that way a minute ago. Oh, in the excitement I forgot 
all about Kelton. Oh, he'll be all right in a few minutes.


KELTON
Did you see that thing? Did you get it?

LT. HARPER
We got it.

KELTON
What was it? It didn't fall...I fired every bullet I had.

LT. HARPER
So did I. I don't know what it was or what happened, but unless that bag of 
bones can reassemble itself, it's out of the running now.

[BACK AT CEMETERY]

LT. HARPER
Colonel I've been out here so often you'd think I'd taken a lease on this place.

COL. EDWARDS
Not a long lease, I hope.

LT. HARPER
I see what you mean. But you know, I can't help but feel the answer's out here 
somewhere.

COL. EDWARDS
Is the uh girl safe?

LT. HARPER
Mrs. Trent you'd better stay with the car.

MRS
Stay here alone? Not on your life. 

LT. HARPER
Modern women...

COL. EDWARDS
Yeah, they been that way all down through the ages. Especially in  a spot like 
this.


LT. HARPER
Kelton!

KELTON
Yessir?

LT. HARPER
Stay with Mrs. Trent.

KELTON
All right, Lieutenant. 

JEFF
Now you stay close to the officer, Honey.

PAULA
I'd feel safer with you.

JEFF 
Now the Lieutenant knows best.

PAULA
Oh I don't like it, but I guess there isn't much I can do about it.

LT. HARPER
[TO JEFF] You have a gun?

JEFF
No.

LT. HARPER
Know how to use one?

JEFF
After four years in the Marine Corps? 

LT. HARPER
Here.

JEFF
You think we'll need these?

LT. HARPER
You can never tell. Let's get going.

JEFF
What do you expect to find out here?

LT. HARPER
Well there's only one answer to that Mr. Trent, we'll know when we find it.  
Inspector Clay's grave is right over here.

COL. EDWARDS
Is that the one you told me was broken into?

LT. HARPER
Yes.

COL. EDWARDS
This it?

LT. HARPER
Yeah.

COL. EDWARDS
Looks to me like someone had broken out instead of in. 

LT. HARPER
I figured that, but that's impossible!

COL. EDWARDS
I wonder. 

LT. HARPER
Look, Colonel, some things just can't happen. 

COL. EDWARDS
Yeah well after that apparition that was draped across Mr. Trent's patio, I 
would say we should keep our minds open to anything. 

LT. HARPER
Look, Colonel, I'm a policeman. I've got to deal in facts. But, I guess I'll 
have to go along with you.  You know I bet my badge right now we haven't seen 
the last of those weirdies.

[SPACESHIP]

EROS
They'll discover our ship soon. 

TANNA
You going to let them find us?

EROS
It's the only way. These are the same men who have been so close so often. They 
must be halted before they can inform others about us. 

TANNA
But there were others in the car!

EROS
They'll be taken too.  Send the big one to get the girl and the policeman. I'll 
turn on the dictorobitary so we may converse with them.

[CLAY'S GRAVE]

JEFF
You know, maybe we're barking up the wrong tree.

LT. HARPER
One thing a policeman learns, Mr. Trent, is patience.

COL. EDWARDS
Where the burn spot you mentioned.

LT. HARPER
Right over the - look!

[SHOT OF SOMETHING GLOWING BEHIND TREES]

LT. HARPER
We'll investigate, but move carefully.

[BACK AT THE CAR, KELTON IS ATTACKED BY CLAY]

KELTON
Ahh...ahhhhhhhh!

[CLAY WALKS OVER TO CAR]

PAULA
Aaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaaahhhhhhhhh!

[SPACESHIP]


EROS (Looking out window)
A moment or two more, and you will be the first live Earth people ever to enter 
a celestial ship.

[OUTSIDE SHIP]

LT. HARPER
Wow...boy,  how could anything that big hide for so long a time?

COL. EDWARDS
Never heard metal sound like that before. What do you see?

LT. HARPER
Only my reflection. Must be some kind of one-way glass.

COL. EDWARDS
How do you get into this thing?

JEFF
I'm not sure I want to find out.

[SHIP]

EROS
They're just outside. You can open the outer hatch now. 

[OUTSIDE]

LT. HARPER
Look out!

JEFF
You goin' in that thing?

COL. EDWARDS
That's what we're here for. 

JEFF
I don't know, the way these things speed around we might just get in there and 
pft! Off it goes.

COL. EDWARDS
That's a chance we take. 



LT. HARPER
Well, I took a chance on those earlier airplanes. Might just as well see what 
the inside of one of these looks like. Got your guns ready?

JEFF
I tell you one thing, if a little green man jumps out at me I'm shooting first 
and asking questions later.

[SHIP]

TANNA
They're in the outer chamber now. Eros, do we have to kill them?

EROS
Yes. 

TANNA
It seems such a waste. 

EROS
Well wouldn't it be better to kill a few now than, with their meddling, permit 
them  to destroy the entire universe?

TANNA
You're always right, Eros.

EROS
Of course. But those are not my words, those are the words of the Ruler. 

[THE THREE MEN ENTER THE ROOM, GUNS READY]

LT. HARPER
Now you two stay right where you're at.

EROS
We will do as you command. For the moment. 

LT. HARPER
No for the moment about it. You just do as I tell you.

EROS
You do not need guns. They would be of no use to you now. 

LT. HARPER
They've been mighty useful before on flesh and blood, and you two look like 
you've got a lot of both. 

EROS
True, they would be effective upon us. If you were to have the opportunity to 
use them...

JEFF
Mister, if you don't get away from that control board I'll show you just how 
effective they can be.

EROS
Shall we talk now, or wait?`Your friends will be here shortly.

LT. HARPER
What friends?

EROS
Those you left at the vehicle.

JEFF
If you've done anything to Paula...!

COL. EDWARDS
Take it easy Mr. Trent. 

EROS
Oh I assure you, no harm has come to her. Would you like to see?

[JEFF SHOOTS THE CONTROL BOARD]

JEFF
Next time you try that I won't aim at the board.

EROS
You're a headstrong young man. I was only going to turn on the televisor so you 
could see her movements. 

LT. HARPER
Go ahead, my friend, but move very carefully. 

EROS
She's only fainted. 

JEFF
You fiend!



EROS
I? A fiend? I am a soldier of our planet! I? A fiend? We did not come here as 
enemies. We came only with friendly intentions. To talk. To ask your aid. 

COL. EDWARDS
Our aid?

EROS
Yes. Your aid for the whole universe.  But your governments of Eath refused even 
to accept our existence.  Even though you've seen us, heard our messages, you 
still refused to accept us.

COL. EDWARDS
Why is it so important that you want to contact the governments of our Earth?

EROS
Because of death. Because all you of Earth are idiots! 

JEFF
Now you just hold on, Buster.

EROS
No you hold on. First was your firecracker, a harmless explosive. Then your 
handgrenade. They began to kill your own people a few at a time. Then the bomb, 
then a larger bomb. Many people are killed at one time. Then your scientists 
stumbled upon the atom bomb. Split the atom. Then the hydrogen bomb, where you 
actually explode the air itself. Now you [audio jump] brings the destruction of 
the entire universe, served by our sun. The only explosion left is the 
solaronite. 

COL. EDWARDS
Why there's no such thing.

EROS
Perhaps to you.  But we've known it for centuries. Your scientists will stumble 
upon it as they have all the others. But the juvenile minds you possess will not 
comprehend its strength, until it's too late. 

COL. EDWARDS
You're way above our heads.

EROS
The solaronite is a way to explode the actual particles of sunlight. 

COL. EDWARDS
Why that's impossible.

EROS
Even now, your scientists are working on a way to harness the sun's rays. The 
rays of sunlight are minute particles. Is it so far from your imagination they 
cannot do as I have suggested? 

COL. EDWARDS
Why a particle of sunlight can't even be seen or measured. 

EROS
Can you see or measure an atom? Yet you can explode one. A ray of sunlight is 
made up many atoms.

JEFF
So what if we do developed this solaronite bomb? We'd be even a stronger nation 
than now. 

EROS
Stronger. You see? You see? Your stupid minds...stupid! Stupid!!

JEFF
That's all I'm taking from you!

[JEFF LEAPS AT EROS]

LT. HARPER
Get back here you jerk! Let him finish. 

EROS
It's because of men like you that all must be destroyed. Headstrong, violent! No 
use of the mind God gave you. 

JEFF
You talk of God?

EROS
You also think it impossible that we, too, might think of God? You, [TO COL. 
EDWARDS] who wear the uniform of your country. You see, I wear the uniform of my 
country. Yes, we've had to use drastic means to get to you, but you left us no 
alternative. When you have the solaronite, you have nothing. Nor, does the 
universe.

COL. EDWARDS
You speak of solaronite, but just what is it?

EROS
Take a can of your gasoline. Say this can of gasoline is the sun. Now you spread 
a thin a line of it to a ball, representing the Earth. Now, the gasoline 
represents the sunlight, the sun particles. Here we saturate the ball with the 
gasoline, the sunlight. Then we put a flame to the ball. The flame will speedily 
travel around the Earth, back along the line of gasoline to can, or the sun 
itself. It will explode this source, and spread to every place that gasoline, or 
sunlight, touches. Explode the sunlight here, Gentlemen, and you explode the 
universe. Explode the sunlight here, and a chain reaction will occur, direct to 
the sun itself. And to all the planets that sunlight touches. To every planet in 
the universe. This why you must be stopped. This is why any means must be used 
to stop you. In a friendly manner, or as it seems, you want it.

LT. HARPER
He's mad.

TANNA
Mad? Is it mad that you destroy other people to save yourselves? You have done 
this. Is it mad that one country must destroy another to save themselves? You 
have also done this. How then is it mad that one planet must destroy another 
that threatens the very existence-

EROS
That's enough!! In my land, women are for advancing the race, not for fighting 
man's battles. Life is not so expansive on my planet. We don't cling to it like 
you do. Our entire aim is for the development of our planet.

[BACK AT THE CAR, KELTON NOW INSIDE IT. LARRY PULLS UP BESIDE HIM]

LARRY
What happened to you?

KELTON
How come you're all alone? I asked for lots of help!

LARRY
You sounded drunk or something on the radio.

KELTON
If I didn't see it with my own eyes I would never have believed it!

LARRY
Believed what?

KELTON
It was horrible! And he almost broke my shoulder!



LARRY
Look, what are you trying to say? If you don't make sense we'll never get to the 
bottom of this. Now who slugged you?

KELTON
Inspector Clay.  

LARRY
What?

KELTON
It was Clay all right, only not like we remembered him. Well his grave was 
busted into, wasn't it?

LARRY
Next you'll tell me you saw skeletons.

KELTON
We did, earlier.

LARRY
Now I know you're off your rocker.

KELTON
All of us saw, the Lieutenant, the COL. EDWARDSonel, everybody!

LARRY
Where's the Lieutenant now?

KELTON 
We've gotta find them. Mrs. Trent is gone! I was left here to guard her. Then 
Clay showed up and put me out of the running. And the second time tonight and 
I'm getting darned tired of it!

LARRY
Which way were they going?

KELTON
Oh, that way.

LARRY
Come on!

[BACK IN SHIP, EROS LOOKING OUT WINDOW, STILL GOING ON...]


EROS
Then one day it could all be gone, in one big puff of smoke and ball of fire. 
All that out there, the stars, the planets, all just an empty void.

LT. HARPER
You two had better come along with us.

EROS
Come with you? Where?

LT. HARPER
The police station.

EROS
Aaaaahahahahahahahahaha! So it seems you think you have the upper hand. Look out 
there. 

LT. HARPER
Jeff.

[WINDOW REVEALS CLAY HOLDING PAULA]

EROS
She is unharmed, but he would kill in seconds if I so choose.

[LARRY AND KELTON APPROACH SHIP]

LARRY
Holy cow! Look there. It's Clay all right, there's no mistaking that.

KELTON 
And he's got Mrs. Trent!

LARRY
Get your gun ready.

KELTON
From all I've seen tonight guns won't do any good. Clay is dead, and we buried 
him. How are we going to kill somebody that's already dead? Dead! And yet there 
he stands! That other one earlier I emptied a full clip into him .

LARRY
I'm seeing it, that's the only reason I'm listening to you. Look, I've got an 
idea. Hurt him or not, we've got to try something. I'm going to sneak up behind 
him and whop him over the head. That oughta make him move. Follow me. Even when 
Clay was alive he couldn't run fast enough to catch me, so when he does, you 
grab Mrs. Trent and run like lightning in the opposite direction. 

KELTON
Oh, you think it will work?

LARRY
Know anything else to try?

[THEY DO SO, CLAY FALLS AND DROPS PAULA. SHE COMES TO.]

PAULA
Oh, I'll be all right. Take care of the others.

[SHIP]

EROS
Your men have felled the big one. This could only happen because the electrode 
ray is off. He'll walk again when I turn it on. 

LT. HARPER
Hold it, right there.

[FIGHT BREAKS OUT]

[OUTSIDE]

LARRY
Suppose the Lieutenant and the others are in that thing!

KELTON
Well suppose there are martians or something in there!     

[SHIP, FIGHT STILL GOING ON]

LT. HARPER
Come on, let's go.

[OUTSIDE]

LARRY
Open up in there, open up!

COL. EDWARDS
Get that door open.

LT. HARPER
Colonel I wouldn't know one switch from another. 

TANNA
Hold on Eros, I'll have the ship in the air in a minute!

[COL. EDWARDS EVENTUALLY OPENS THE DOOR]

COL. EDWARDS
Get out of here, Jeff! The ship's on fire!

[THE MEN RUN OUT OF THE SHIP]

TANNA
Eros! Eros everything's on fire! Hurry, wake up Eros! Eros, Eros, wake up, wake 
up! Eros! Eros wake up, Eros! God wake up!

[OUTSIDE]

LT. HARPER
Oh, I wonder if that's the last we'll see of them?

COL. EDWARDS
Perhaps, but sooner or later there'll be other.

LARRY
Look!

PAULA
Have they caught that woman, that thing yet?

LT. HARPER
Hey that's right, there's another ghoul running loose.

COL. EDWARDS
And it's my guess that she'll look like him. With the ship and the ray gun gone, 
they have no control. We got to hand it to them though, they're far ahead from 
us.

[SHIP]

TANNA
Fire! Eros! Aaaaaaaaah!

[SHIP BLOWS UP]


[BACK TO CRISWELL]

CRISWELL
My friend, you have seen this incident based on sworn testimony. Can you prove 
that it didn't happen? Perhaps on your way home, you will pass someone in the 
dark, and you will never know it, for they will be from outer space. Many 
scientists believe that another world is watching us this moment. We once 
laughed at the horseless carriage, the aeroplane, the telephone, the electric 
light, vitamins, radio, and even television! And now some of us laugh at outer 
space. God help us... in the future. 

The End


