The Thirteenth Floor

INT. HOTEL ROOM-MIGHT 1930 L.A.  Fuller writes a letter

FULLER
They say, "Ignorance is bliss." For the first time in my life, I 
agree. I wish I had never uncovered the awful truth. I know now. 
once they find out, they will try to silence me. That is why I've 
written this all down for you in this letter.  You*re the only 
one whom I can tell this to.  The only one who could possibly 
understand. Good luck, my friend.

INT. HOTEL-NIGHT

CLARK
I hope you enjoyed your stay with us.

GENE
Mr. Fuller, nice having you here tonight. Your usual table?

FULLER
No thanks. Gene.

ASHTON
Her name's Erika. She's from Toledo.

FULLER
Ashton, would you do me a favor?

ASHTON
You'd like to meet her?

FULLER
I want you to keep this letter. Somebody will ask for it. A man 
named Douglas Hall. Remember, it's crucial that he receives it.

ASHTON
It's a walk in the park.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE HOTEL-NIGHT

DRIVER
Going home, Mr. Fuller?

FULLER
Yes, Charlie.

INT HOME BEDROOM- NIGHT

WOMAN
We're out of cat food.

FULLER
Yes, I'll buy some in the morning.

WOMAN
You've been smoking again.

INT. COMPUTER ROOM -NIGHT 2000

COMPUTER
Download complete. Link to simulation terminated.

INT. BAR- NIGHT

BARTENDER
One martini.

FULLER
You forgot the olive.

BARTENDER
We're out of olives. How about some pretzels?

FULLER
No thank you.

PHONE
Please leave a message at the tone.

FULLER
Douglas, it's me. Listen, I've stumbled onto something 
incredible. This changes everything.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BAR -NIGHT

FULLER
I don't know. I don't even know how to begin. What are you doing?

INT. DOUGLAS'S HOUSE- MORNING

PHONE
You have new messages. You have 3 new messages.

PHONE
First new message
Five twenty-five a.m. 

HILLARY
Douglas, it's Hilary. Don't forget to call Marshall. Legal is 
screaming for the contract.  I'll have a notary come to the 
office at lunch.

PHONE
Next new message
Five forty-eight a.m. 

HILLARY
It's me again. Please call me as soon as you get up.

PHONE
Next new message
Six thirteen a.m.

McBAIN
Mr. Douglas Hall, this is Detective McBain, LAPD.  I'd appreciate 
a callback, please. My phone number is 555-7876.

INT.POLICE OFFICE - MORNING

BERNTEIN
I'm Detective Zev Bernstein. Sorry to drag you out of bed so 
early.  This is Detective McBain.

McBAIN
Mr. Hall? Thanks for coming down.

DOUGLAS
Where is he?

McBAIN
Can I get you some coffee?

DOUGLAS
No.

McBAIN
We found him in an alley at Spring and Grand. Looks like he ran 
into some guy who wasn't just asking for a quarter. Carved him up 
like a ham. Took everything
Wallet, credit cards. Got a real kick out of it. What's your 
connection to the old man?

DOUGLAS
I worked with him for 6 years. He was may boss. My friend.

McBAIN
Hey, cigarette?

DOUGLAS
I don't smoke.

McBAIN
We found these on him.  Traced the prescription. According to his 
doctor.  Fuller listed you to call in case of medical 
emergencies. He had no next of kin?

DOUGLAS
No he didn't.

McBAIN
Sure?

DOUGLAS
I think he would've told me.

McBAIN
Have any idea who killed him?

DOUGLAS
Everybody liked him.

McBAIN
Mind if I tag along?  Or we can continue in my office, if that's 
more convenient.

DOUGLAS
That's fine.

McBain, What do you do for a paycheck, anyway?

DOUGLAS
Computer software. Would you mind taking care of the car this 
morning?

McBAIN
Must make some decent bucks, huh?

DOUGLAS
I make a living.

INT. FULLER'S OFFICE -MORNING

DOUGLAS
This was his apartment.

McBAIN
You could be home already.

DOUGLAS
What?

McBAIN
I see these signs every time I leave work - " You could be home 
already. Apartment living in downtown." Never expected it could 
look anything like this.

DOUGLAS
This company was Fuller's life. He worked and lived here.

McBAIN
So what exactly do your people do here?

DOUGLAS
I don't think you wouldn't be interested.

McBAIN
I'm paid to be interested.

DOUGLAS
Computer research. Fuller was onto a  whole new frontier. Very 
sensitive material.  Not at liberty to discuss it.

McBAIN
A lot of money involved. This apartment must be worth a few 
million dollars.

DOUGLAS
One of the perks of the job.

McBAIN
This job has a whole lot of perks.

(A woman comes in)

DOUGLAS
Can I help you?

JANE
I just talked to him 2 days ago. I can't believe he' gone.  My 
name is Jane Fuller. Hannon was my father.

DOUGLAS
I'm sorry. I'm Douglas Hall.

JANE
You are the one he always wanted me to meet.

DOUGLAS
Really? He never mentioned to me that he had a daughter.

JANE
he didn't? I just arrived from Paris this morning. I was supposed 
to meet him. But then I heard.

McBAIN
My condolences, Miss Fuller. I'm Detective McBain, LAPD.  I have 
to ask you some questions.

JANE
of course.

McBAIN
Would you excuse us, Mr. Hall?

DOUGLAS
Sure. Have we ever met before?

JANE
No, that's not possible.

DOUGLAS
You look very familiar. Nice to meet you, Miss Fuller.

INT. THE 13TH FLOOR

DOUGLAS
Hey, Whitney. How you doing?

WHITNEY
Sliced him up like an animal. And for what?  He was the Einstein 
of our generation. It's a waste.

DOUGLAS
What the hell happened while I was away?

WHITNEY
He was jacking into the system a lot.

DOUGLAS
What?

WHITNEY
I thought you knew. You didn't know?

DOUGLAS
No, I thought we were months away from the first trial run.

WHITNEY
We are. But you know, he was taking a big chance.  What was I 
supposed to do? You know how he is.

DOUGLAS
Any complications?

WHITNEY
None that I know of yet.

DOUGLAS
Did he ever tell you he had a daughter?

WHITNEY
Why?

DOUGLAS
Because I just met her.

WHITNEY
You're kidding me.

INT. OFFICE ROBBY

DOUGLAS
John, I need the number of that cab company.

GUARD
No need, sir. She went to the Omni Hotel.

INT. THE 13TH FLOOR

WHITNEY
Doug?

McBAIN
Detective McBain. Sorry to disappoint you.

WHITNEY
I'll find Doug.

McBAIN
Actually it's you I want to have a few word with.

WHITNEY
What for?

McBAIN
Want me to catch your boss's killer?

WHITNEY
Of course.

McBAIN
The whole thing's a giant computer game?

WHITNEY
No not at all, it doesn't need a user to interact with it to 
function. Its units are fully-formed, self-learning cyber beings.

McBAIN
Units?

WHITNEY
Electronic, simulated characters. They populate the system.  They 
think they work, they eat,

McBAIN
They fuck?

WHITNEY
Let's just say that they're modeled after us.  Right now we have 
a working prototype
Los Angeles, circa 1937.

McBAIN
Why '37?

WHITNEY
Fuller wanted to start by recreating the era of his youth. You 
see, while my mind is jacked in, I'm walking around experiencing 
1937. My body stays here and holds the consciousness of the 
program link unit.

McBAIN
You think one of them units crawled up an extension cord and 
killed its maker?

INT. HOTEL ROBBY

DOUGLAS
Miss Fuller checked in yet?

DOUGLAS
Glad I caught you.

JANE
Mr. Hall. What are you doing here.

DOUGLAS
Well, it's about your father. Actually.  You said you spoke with 
him a few days ago.  Can you tell me anything about that 
conversation?  Did he seem strange to you at all?

JANE
Well, he'd been under a lot of stress lately. He asked me to fly 
to the States, so I could help with the company.

DOUGLAS
Help him run it?

JANE
Shut it down.

DOUGLAS
I worked with him for 6 years. If he wanted to shut it down, he 
would've told me about it.

JANE
He didn't tell you about me. But I wish he had.

MAN
It's nice to see you again.

JANE
Sorry I'm late. Have you had a chance to look through the 
paperwork?

MAN
Yes, I have. And I think we have a very strong case. The company 
should be yours in no time.

JANE
What do you mean strong case?

MAN
What  I'm saying is , your father changed his will in favor of 
the employees.  In fact you aren't mentioned in the original will 
either.  But as I said, I think we have a very strong case.

JANE
Who will heard the board now?

MAN
Douglas Hall.

McBAIN
Not bad. Owner of a &2 billion enterprise. Strange, Fuller would 
amend his will just a couple days before he died.

DOUGLAS
I was on a airplane when it happened.

McBAIN
According to the security guard, Fuller left the office at ten-
thirty p.m., 30 minutes after your plane arrived. Autopsy shows 
that he died around midnight.  You had time to catch up with him.

DOUGLAS
But I didn't. I went straight home.

McBAIN
Didn't talk to him? No, e-mails, no faxes, no even message?

DOUGLAS
None of the above.

McBAIN
You know, that's funny. We checked Fuller's phone records. He 
made a call with his calling card at 11:02p.m.b Your home number. 
I'd appreciate it if you didn't leave for a couple of days. And 
get that game fixed. It*s missing a spring.

INT. HALL'S APARTMENT

PHONE
Restore. To restore messages, press "rewind" now.  Yesterday at 
two forty-five p.m. 

MAN
I managed to reschedule...

PHONE
Yesterday at 5:14p.m.

MAN
Hello, Mr. Hall

PHONE
Yesterday at 11:02p.m.

FULLER
Douglas, it's me. Listen, I've stumbled onto something

incredible. This changed everything. I'm here in some bar on Main 
and 7th. In case something happens to me, I left you a massage 
in the system. I gave it to.. How did you find me?

INT. THE 13TH  FLOOR

WHITNEY
What's going on?

DOUGLAS
I'm trying to get into Fuller's files.

WHITNEY
For what?

DOUGLAS
He left a message for me the night he died.  He knew someone 
wanted to kill him.

WHITNEY
Did you tell the police?

DOUGLAS
No.

WHITNEY
Why not?

DOUGLAS
He also said he left a message for me.

WHITNEY
Douglas, please. This is my stuff, okay?

DOUGLAS
So these are the units that Fuller interacted with when he was 
down there.  Maybe he wanted me to go in.

WHITNEY
If you're thinking what I think you're thinking.  Don't even 
think about it.

DOUGLAS
I need your help.

WHITNEY
No, no, no. I won't help you. You're taking a serious risk.

DOUGLAS
I have to get in.

WHITNEY
you could die.

DOUGLAS
The police think I killed him. They may be right.

WHITNEY
What are you talking about?

DOUGLAS
Everything points to me.  To be perfectly honest, I don't know 
the truth is anymore.  Either I did murder Fuller and I can' t 
remember, or I'm being framed.  The one clue I have is in that 
machine. I need your help if I'm going to find it.

WHITNEY
I'll set it for an hour.

DOUGLAS
Set the timer for 120 minutes.

WHITNEY
Set for 60 is better.

DOUGLAS
120 minutes, Whit.

WHITNEY
60 is safer. I'm setting it at 60.

DOUGLAS
Whit, 1-2-0.

COMPUTER
120 minutes. Engage timer. Preparing user for download into 
simulation. Ready for download.

DOUGLAS
Mr. Grierson, 117 West Whinston, Pasadena.

COMPUTER
Transference beginning. Download complete.

INT. BANK 1937 L.A. DAY

WOMAN
You owe me $12.05. Listen young man! I do not have all day.

CLARK
Ferguson, anything wrong? John, are you okay?

CLARK
I'm terribly sorry, ma'am. Someone will be right with you.

CLARK
John? Cigarette?

DOUGLAS
No, thanks. Don't smoke.

CLARK
Since when? Listen John. Why don't you break for lunch? Get some 
fresh air.  You look terrible.

EXT. STREET DAY

BOY
Extra! Extra! Zeppelin blast kills 35!  You want one, mister? 
It's 5 cents.

DOUGLAS
How much to Pasadena?

DRIVER
90 cents. If I forget to turn the meter on.

DOUGLAS
I understand.

DRIVER
So this is it, 177 Whinston.

DOUGLAS
It's gonna be a few minutes. Do you mind waiting?

DRIVER
It'll be a pleasure, sir.

INT. BOOK STORE DAY

GRIERSON
Tell me if you need any help.

DOUGLAS
Thank you. You own this place?

GRIERSON
I mean, it's not much but it's mine. You looking for anything in 
particular?

DOUGLAS
Interested in a scientist. Wrote a couple of books about 
semiconductors and the limitation of the 64-bit microchip.

GRIERSON
Microchip. Semiconductors. What year?

DOUGLAS : 
Early seventies? His name was Hannon Fuller.

GRIERSON
Hannon Fuller. 1870. No I can't say I've ever heard of Hannon 
Fuller. 1870, Microchips. But I'm not much of a  technical 
person, you know. You been here before? You look kind of 
familiar.

DOUGLAS
name's Douglas Hall.

GRIERSON
Douglas Hall. It doesn't ring a bell. Guess you just have one of 
those faces familiar faces. Oh, it's late. I'd like to close up 
now. 

DOUGLAS
Of course. Pleasure.

GRIERSON
Pleasure to meet you, Mr. Hall.

EXT. 1257 Palo Alto Road DAY

DRIVER
1257 Palo Alto Road, la Cienega Heights. I guess that's it.

DOUGLAS
Excuse me. I'm looking for Bridget Manilla.

WOMAN
What do you want her for?

DOUGLAS
I want to ask her some questions.

WOMAN
She's got a job now. I'm her mother.

DOUGLAS
Can you tell me where I can find her?

WOMAN
You a copper?

DOUGLAS
No.

WOMAN
Now, listen. She ain't doing nothing wrong no more.  If you don't 
cause her no trouble, you'll find her at Wilshire Grand Hotel.

INT. WILSHIRE GRAND HOTEL

DOUGLAS
I'm looking for Bridget Manilla.

WOMAN
She's over there, second from the end.

DOUGLAS
Bridget? I got your name from a good friend of mine.

BRIDGET
Come  bask later. I'm really busy right now.

DOUGLAS
his name's fuller.

BRIDGET
The manager's very tough on us. You'll have to wait till I'm off 
duty.

DOUGLAS
I really don't think I can wait that long.

BRIDGET
Go talk to Ashton over at the bar.

INT. BAR COUNTER

DOUGLAS
Excuse me. I'm looking for Ashton.

BARTENDER
Right there. Ashton, some guy wants you.

ASHTON
You're a lucky man. I just opened. Oh my. Something wrong?

DOUGLAS
Bridget just sent me over here.

ASHTON
What can I do you for?

DOUGLAS
You know a gentleman named Hannon Fuller?

ASHTON
Gin martini up, one olive and likes them frigid as an Eskimo.

DOUGLAS
talked to him recently?

ASHTON
Why?

DOUGLAS
I'm his friend. He didn't come home last night. And his wife is 
concerned.  My name is Douglas hall.

ASHTON
Concerned wives? I can't help you with that. How about something 
fancy?

DOUGLAS
So did... Does Fuller come here frequently?

ASHTON
You could say that.

DOUGLAS
What does he do?

ASHTON
What everybody does
Drinks, dances, has a good time.  Especially has a good time. He 
really goes for the girls.

DOUGLAS
Girls?

ASHTON
Thought you said you knew him.

DOUGLAS
Yeah, I thought I did.

ASHTON
Are you in a hurry or something?

DOUGLAS
Didn't happen to talk to Fuller the night before last, did you?

ASHTON
Yes, I did.

DOUGLAS
Did he mention my name? Did he give you something for me?

ASHTON
What would that be?

DOUGLAS
A message or a note, maybe.

ASHTON
No, sorry.

DOUGLAS
Did you see him talking to anybody else?

ASHTON
I'm a very busy man. Listen, if you like, I can arrange something 
for you too.  You see anything you want?

DOUGLAS
Can you tell me where the bathroom is , please?

INT. THE 13TH FLOOR

WHITNEY
You all right? You sure? All right, take it easy. Hey, man. Take 
it easy.  I told you, 120 minutes. It's too long. You're really 
pushing your luck.

DOUGLAS
What happened?

WHITNEY
The memory transference with your link it froze. Started 
overlapping! Thought I'd be shooting hoops with Ferguson for the 
rest of my life.

INT. THE BAR 1973

FERGUSON
You got a smoke?

ASHTON
Sure.

FERGUSON
Thank you. Mind if I ask you a question? Can you tell me where I 
am?

INT. THE 13TH FLOOR

WHITNEY
It works?

DOUGLAS
Oh, it works.

WHITNEY
How about Anston? My bartender?

DOUGLAS
He's got  much better haircut than you. Much better.

WHITNEY
I wish I could see it for myself. How's the lighting? Textures?

DOUGLAS
Colorization needs work, but the units don't notice.

WHITNEY
What are they like?

DOUGLAS
They're as real as you and me.

WHITNEY
You see the old man was right! All those years of work! Did you 
find out what he was doing there?

DOUGLAS
Yeah, He was having sex with girls.

WHITNEY
You're kidding me.

GUARD
Excuse me , Mr. Hall?  A man in the lobby says he needs to talk 
to you.

DOUGLAS
Thanks. Have him call my office in the morning.

GUARD
He says it's urgent.  He's a friend of Mr. Fuller's

INT. LOBBY

DOUGLAS
You're a friend of Fuller's?

TOM
You're Hall, right?

DOUGLAS
How can I help you, Mr. Tom Jones. You know, like the singer.  
How about some privacy?

DOUGLAS
What do you want to talk about?

TOM
About the night the old man died.

DOUGLAS
I'll be right back, Joe.

INT. THE GARAGE

DOUGLAS
So where'd you meet Fuller?

TOM
in my bar the other night. Waiting for you.

DOUGLAS
Is that what you wanted to talk to me about?

TOM
I want to talk about money now. Something in the seven figures.

DOUGLAS
What money?

TOM
Come on. You think you can get away with it?

DOUGLAS
Get away with what?

TOM
You took the old man, asshole! Listen to me. He was at the bar. 
You pick him up, leave together. Next day he's an obit. You do 
the math, asshole!

INT.CAR NIGHT RAIN

CLARK
Omni Hotel. How can I help you?

DOUGLAS
Miss Jane Fuller, please.

JANE
hello? Who is this?

INT. HOTEL NIGHT

DOUGLAS
The night your father was killed, he tried to reach me. He wanted 
to meet at some bar.

JANE
What for?

DOUGLAS
He left someone was after him.

JANE
Did you talk to him?

DOUGLAS
I know how strange this sounds. I can't remember.

JANE
What do you mean, you can't remember? Did you talk to the 
detective about this?

DOUGLAS
No, but the bartender will, if I don't pay up. I know how crazy 
this sounds.

JANE
You can't just plug your brain into this machine and not expect 
to be affected by it please walk away from this before you get 
hurt too.

DOUGLAS
Why do I get the feeling we've met before?

JANE
Maybe, we have, in another life.

DOUGLAS
What are you doing in Paris? What*s that other life like?

JANE
I don't want to talk about it.

DOUGLAS
Why not?

JANE
I guess I don't want you to lose interest in me.

DOUGLAS
You don't have to worry about that.

JANE
Let's dance.

DOUGLAS
Me? Mo, no.

JANE
Yes, come on.

DOUGLAS
I buy all my shoes in left pairs.

JANE
It's easy. I'll show you the steps. You're doing pretty good for 
a man with no right foot.

DOUGLAS
must've picked it up in another life.

JANE
You know that feeling you have that we met before? It's the same 
with me.

DOUGLAS
Why is that?

JANE
They say that deja vu is usually a sign of love at first sight.

INT. BEDROOM

McBAIN
Don't make any sudden moves. What it's usually all about. Murder.

INT. POLICE OFFICE

McBAIN
Is that your car?

DOUGLAS
Those are my plates.

McBAIN
No, shit? That's from a security camera in your garage in your 
office building the night Fuller was killed.

DOUGLAS
I'm not sure. I don't understand.

McBAIN
That makes one of us.  Fuller wants to shut down the project, 
and you sliced him up.

DOUGLAS
I think it's time I call my attorney.

McBAIN
You say you left your office at 10.

DOUGLAS
I was working late with Whitney. I told you that.

McBAIN
Anybody with you?

DOUGLAS
No.

McBAIN
You're picking up bad habits left and right.

DOUGLAS
Must be the stress.

McBAIN
Then you'll need a carton. Mane's Tom Jones. Said he saw your 
picture in the news paper.  Said you looked like the guy Fuller 
left the bar with that night.  We took his statement. Said we'd 
be in touch. Someone reached out and touched him first.

INT. JAIL

COP
Looks like you found an alibi. You're free to go for now.

INT. CAR

DOUGLAS
What did you tell him?

JANE
The truth. We met for a drink, one thing led to another, we spent 
the night together. Your picture was on the news. He saw you and 
thought you were good for quick cash.

DOUGLAS
I saw the pictures. The guy was slaughtered.

JANE
He was an ex- con.  Who knows what else he did.

DOUGLAS
Just because I don't remember it doesn't mean I didn't do it.

JANE
You're not a killer.

DOUGLAS
Your father stumbled onto something. He left me a message that 
has something to do with this.

JANE
So what are you going to do?

DOUGLAS
Jack back in and find out.

EXT. OUTSIDE THE BOOK STORE IN 1937

GRIERSON
I'll call the police.

DOUGLAS
I need to talk to you!

GRIERSON
I told you! I'll call the police.

DOUGLAS
Listen! I know why you pass out from time to time. I know why you 
wake up and have no idea where you are. What did you do 3 nights 
ago? Any idea?

INT. THE BOOK STORE

DOUGLAS
When did it first happen?

GRIERSON
First time? About 4 weeks ago.

DOUGLAS
And the last episode was 3 nights ago? It lasts for about 2 
hours?

GRIERSON
My wife thinks I have some kind of secret love life.

DOUGLAS
What about memory flashes, deja vu?

GRIERSON
I was in World War I. I'm still having these nightmares.

DOUGLAS
I'm talking about fantasies.

GRIERSON
I do have them.

DOUGLAS
In these fantasies, you're having sex with young girls.

GRIERSON
When I wake up, I even have a perfume smell all over me.

DOUGLAS
Real or imagined?

GRIERSON
According to my wife, it's pretty real. I found this. A couple of 
days ago.

DOUGLAS
Your size?

GRIERSON
I'm married over 35 years now. And not once have I cheated on my 
wife.  Not once.

DOUGLAS
Let's have a drink.

EXT. OUTSIDE HOTEL NIGHT

DOUGLAS
You've been here before?

GRIERSON
No, I can't afford places like this.

DOUGLAS
my treat.

BELL BOY
Good evening, Mr. Fuller.

DOUGLAS
That's you.

INT. HOTEL

CLARK
Excuse me, sir. Members only.

CLARK
Mr. Fuller, your usual table?

DOUGLAS
Of course.

GRIERSON
He is with me.

GIRL
Hi, honey bear. I'll be with you in 5 minutes.

DOUGLAS
Let's talk, " honey bear" You remember her?

GRIERSON
Of course not. She's mistaken me for someone else. Or someone 
else.

DOUGLAS
I want you to look around and tell me what you remember.

GRIERSON
I don't know, Mr. Hall. I'd rather go home. I don't feel very 
well.

DOUGLAS
You have the feeling you've been here before? Please try to 
remember. Do you recognized anybody?

GRIERSON
I'm trying.

DOUGLAS
Her? What's her name?

GRIERSON
I think her name Erika, I believe. I believe her name is Erika.

DOUGLAS
Do you remember did you talk to her?

GRIERSON
I'm not sure. And that one looks familiar too.

DOUGLAS
Bridget. Her name's Bridget.

GRIERSON
Bridget. Oh Yes. I remember Bridget.

DOUGLAS
Did you give her something to give me? Did you give her a letter 
or a note?

GRIERSON
The man behind the bar. You're right. I wrote a letter. And gave 
it to him.

INT. THE BASEMENT

ASHTON
You looking for anything special? What are you?

DOUGLAS
My name's Ferguson. I'm a bank teller.

ASHTON
I'm Clark Gable. I talked to the Ferguson guy. He doesn't know a 
thing.  I need to talk to Fuller.

DOUGLAS
He's upstairs.

ASHTON
Cut the crap! You think I don't know what's going in? I need to 
see him I need to talk to him again.

DOUGLAS
You read the letter. I need to know what's in the letter.

ASHTON
Everything. When I read it, I thought it was a gag. The world's a 
sham. Fat chance. but I'm not stupid, Mr. Hall. I watched you and 
Ferguson do the old switcheroo. That stuff about going to " the 
ends of the earth"

DOUGLAS
What stuff?

ASHTON
I did exactly what the letter said. I chose a place I'd never go 
to.  I tried to drive to Tucson. I figured, what the hell. Never 
been to the countryside.  And I took that car out on the highway. 
I was going over 50 through that desert. After a while, it was 
the only car on the road. It was just me, the heat and the dust. 
I did exactly what the letter said. "Don't follow any road signs 
and don't stop for anything. Not even barricades." But just when 
I should've been getting closer to the city. Something wasn't 
right. There was no movement, no life. Everything was still and 
quiet. And then I got out of the car. And what I saw scared me to 
the depths of my miserable soul. It was true. It was all a sham. 
It ain't real. 

DOUGLAS
Why would Fuller write about the limitations of the simulation?  
I know them.

ASHTON
I'm asking the questions now. I want to know why would you put us 
through this? Why are you fucking with our minds?

DOUGLAS
You weren't supposed to find out.

ASHTON
Well I did. Now I want you to show me what is real. Is this real? 
Is that real blood? How do you like having your life fucked with?

DOUGLAS
Damn, what's going on? Where's the letter?

INT. THE 13Th FLOOR

WHITNEY
Snap out of it. You won't hit me again?

DOUGLAS
Did you yank me back?

WHITNEY
Yeah, barely, man. Just barely. You didn't start the timer. It 
couldn't engage. What are you doing this alone for anyway?

DOUGLAS
He tried to kill me.

WHITNEY
Who?

DOUGLAS
Ashton.

WHITNEY
Jesus!

DOUGLAS
he found out his world isn't real. This is a mistake. This whole 
project, this experiment. We are screwing with people's lives!

WHITNEY
Now you're talking crazy. I know you just had a bad fucking trip.

DOUGLAS
Bad fucking trip? These people are real. They are as real as you 
and me.

WHITNEY
Yeah, that's because we designed them that way.  In the end, 
they're just a bunch of electronic circuits.

DOUGLAS
I tell you something else. I'm shutting this bad fucking trip 
right down.  I'm telling everybody tomorrow.

WHITNEY
You can't do that. You're talking about 6 years of our lives.  
All of us.  You can't just pull the plug and go home.

INT.HOTEL ROBBY

DOUGLAS
I'm looking for Jane Fuller.

Receptionist
I'm sorry, she's no longer with us.

McBAIN
the lady vanished. Any idea where to?

DOUGLAS
Why would I?

McBAIN
Hannon Fuller doesn't have a daughter. I think I made the age-old 
mistake.  "Never trust a beautiful woman."

DOUGLAS
Who is she, then?

McBAIN
We don't know. It took us a couple days to contact the French 
authorities.  Guess what? They never heard of her either.

EXT.OUTSIDE THE HOTEL

DOUGLAS
Do you remember me? Miss Fuller checked out.  Did you drive her 
anywhere? I'm looking for her.

DRIVER
No can do. Company rules.

EXT.

DOUGLAS
Hello! My name's Douglas hall. I'm looking for a young woman 
named Jane Fuller.

WOMAN
I think you picked the wrong house.

DOUGLAS
Maybe she's going under another name. She's about 5'8". Blonde 
hair.

WOMAN
What do you want from her?

INT. SUPER MARKET

DOUGLAS
Excuse me, I'm looking for Natasha Molinaro.

CLARK
Over there on register 4.

NATASHA
$7.01 Just slide it through. Want cash back?

DOUGLAS
No.

NATASHA
Why don't you take a picture? It'll last longer.

DOUGLAS
Must be deja vu or something.

NATASHA
Paper or plastic?

DOUGLAS
plastic.

NATASHA
there you go.

EXT.OUTSIDE THE SUPER MARKET

NATASHA
Mr. Hall. You forgot your credit card.

DOUGLAS
Thanks.

NATASHA
No problem.

DOUGLAS
Sorry about staring at you in there. You must get that a lot.

NATASHA
Yeah,  but mostly from the wrong kinds of guys. You're not from 
here, are you?

DOUGLAS
What makes you ask?

NATASHA
Well, it's just I don't know I just had this funny feeling that 
we met before.

DOUGLAS
Maybe in another life.

NATASHA
yeah, I guess that would explain it. Anyway, I got to get back to 
my daily grind, so. Maybe I'll see you around sometime.

INT. THE SUPERMARKET

NATASHA
7.28 Out of 10. Here's your change. Thank you very much.

McBAIN
Thank you.

COP
Natasha Molinaro.. 27 single. Changes job like other change 
underwear. Came from Austin, Texas, made some money modeling. 
Left school without a degree. Her roommate has no idea what she 
was doing yesterday or the day before. Looks like Molinaro 
doesn't have an alibi.

McBAIN
What else did the roommate say?

COP
Says lately, Natasha hasn't been feeling well. She's been having 
some sort of amnesia attacks. Going out all night sleeping all 
day. Thought she was using drugs.

McBAIN
Did she have a history of drugs?

COP
Nope. She's clean.

McBAIN
Hey Bernie? Good work.

JANE
look, I can explain. I'm sorry. I need to see you Fuller' office.

DOUGLAS
I know the truth.

JANE
Where are you?

DOUGLAS
You could call it the end of the world.

INT. THE OFFICE

DOUGLAS
How many simulated worlds like this are there?

JANE
Thousands. Yours is the only one that ever created a simulation 
within the simulation. Something we never expected.

DOUGLAS
So you had to kill Fuller.

JANE
No. I was sent in after his death. I was to pretend to be his 
daughter, inherit the company. And shut it down. But he tricked 
us. He changed his will.

DOUGLAS
If you didn't kill Fuller. Who did?

DOUGLAS
I stabbed him.

JANE
But it wasn't you. It was your user. He downloaded into you.  
Manipulated you.

DOUGLAS
Like a puppet.

JANE
A puppet doesn't have a soul.

DOUGLAS
I can't have a soul any more than Fuller.

JANE
But you do. Fuller did. That's I never expected that. We 
programmed this world so no one in it could learn the truth. And 
you and Fuller did. Don't you see what that means?

DOUGLAS
There's just one little flaw in your thesis.  None of this is 
real. You pull the plug. I disappear. And nothing I ever say 
nothing I ever do will ever matter. Why don't you find my user? 
I'm sure he's a much better catch.

JANE
I told you about my other life. I was referring to my husband. 
He's

your user.  He killed Fuller.

DOUGLAS
I'm his program link. A reflection of his character profile. I 
fell in love with a decent man. But he ...something happened to 
him. He began to use the simulation as his own personal 
playground. Like Fuller with the girls. He made himself a god, 
and it corrupted him. he began to enjoy the killings. He became 
abusive.

DOUGLAS
What do you mean? I'm  not even real. You can fall in love with a 
dream.

JANE
You're more real to me than anything I've ever known.

EXT. STREET NIGHT Whitney  is in1937.

COP
Nice driving.

WHITNEY
There was something in the road and I had to swerve and I lost 
control.

COP
You drunk?

WHITNEY
I don't drink.

COP
License and registration.

WHITNEY
Look, I didn't jack in  I left it at home.

COP
Why don't you look in the glove box? Need a light?

WHITNEY
Hey I got it. Here you go.

COP
You ought to get this car looked at as soon as you can. It's 
leaking oil.  That could be dangerous. Be a little more careful, 
huh?  You want to turn off the car and step out, please? Turn off 
the car, sir. Right now, please.  Open the trunk, please, sir.  
Hands in the air. Step away from the trunk.

WHITNEY
Check man, It's Douglas!

COP
Back up! I said back the hell up!

WHITNEY
Hey, this is a joke. 

(Whitney is hit by a car)

GUARD
Sorry to bother you, Mr. Hall, but Mr. Whitney's in the building 
and he is acting kind of strange.

DOUGLAS
Hold on, I'll be right down.

INT. DOUGLAS'S BEDROOM

JANE
This is Jane Fuller. I need to speak with Detective McBain.

McBAIN
You've got a lot of explaining to do.  Or should I say, "Miss 
Molinaro"?

INT. The 13th FLOOR

DOUGLAS
How are you doing?

ASHTON
All these pictures, this is your world?  I never imagined it 
could be so beautiful.

DOUGLAS
How did you do it?

ASHTON
...thing I remember, I was dumping Ferguson in the trunk.

DOUGLAS
He jacked in.

ASHTON
Who's Jack? Hey, what did you do to the world?

DOUGLAS
Turn it off.

ASHTON
Put it back. Don't do that! Put it back! What did I do? Where are 
you?  Look at this ! You're really a God.

DOUGLAS
No Ashton, I'm not really a God. I'm just like you.  Just a bunch 
of electricity.

ASHTON
What are you talking about?

DOUGLAS
It's all smoke and mirrors. Just like your world. We're nothing 
but a simulation on some computer. It's like a machine. Like this 
arcade game.  You've got your players and you put your nickel in. 
This one pitches.  This one runs around the bases. Pre- 
programmed movements generated by electrical energy.  We're 
improved on this model since then. The players can beat the shit 
out of and try to drown some other, which is always fun.

ASHTON
But the letter said

DOUGLAS
Everything was fake? The letter was meant for me.  Fuller was 
talking about my world.

ASHTON
So what are you saying? You're saying there's another world on 
top of this one?

DOUGLAS
That's right.

ASHTON
I don't understand.

DOUGLAS
Fuller found out about it. They killed him.

ASHTON
Why didn't they kill you?

DOUGLAS
Maybe they will. Maybe that's why you're pointing a gun at me.  
I*m sorry, Ashton. We're stuck here. You and me. And the rest of 
us.

ASHTON
So this is where I was born.

DOUGLAS
And this is where you die.

DOUGLAS
How much longer do you have?

JANE
10 minutes.

DOUGLAS
Hi honey. I'm home. Did you miss me?

JANE
When did you download into him?

DAVID
Obviously, not soon enough.

JANE
I was just doing my job.

DAVID
Sure you were.

JANE
He's shutting down the system, isn't he?

DAVID
Aside from his devilish good looks, what's so special about this 
guy?

JANE
He reminds me of you. The way you used to be. I'm still the same.

DAVID
I'm still the same.

JANE
No you're not. Why did you butcher those people?

DAVID
Because it was fun.

JANE
You've lost your mind.

DAVID
You're the one who's fucking sick! Falling in love with a fucking 
simulation.

JANE
I was just having some fun. Just like you did.

DAVID
I think you're lying. Just remember, he's a part of me.

JANE
That's not true. It's okay. Just pretend you're fucking him.

JANE
Why?

DAVID
I guess I'm just jealous.

McBAIN
You're okay?

JANE
What the hell took you so long?

McBAIN
How'd you know he7d try to kill you?  

JANE
I knew when he was planning to download. He's dead?

McBAIN
A bullet will do that to you. So, is somebody going to unplug me 
now? Do me a favor, will you? When you get back to wherever you 
come from just leave us alone down here, okay?

INT
INT: 2024

DOUGLAS
Where am I?

JANE
Come, I'll show you.

MAN
Jane, we're getting hungry!  Tell Regina we're waiting for lunch.

JANE
Okay dad. My father Fuller was modeled after him.  There's so 
many things I have to tell you about, Doug.


THE END

