year	2005
imdb score	6.4
meta score	41
genre	Comedy
genre	Romance
keyword	masculinity
keyword	sex
keyword	zerophiliacs
keyword	love
keyword	camping
keyword	proposition
keyword	sexuality
keyword	sex change
keyword	passing out
keyword	anger
keyword	friendship
keyword	homosexual
keyword	gas station
keyword	gender roles
keyword	exploration
keyword	sexual fantasy
keyword	alcoholic drink
keyword	flirting
keyword	fight
keyword	gender swap
keyword	female sexuality
keyword	orgasm
keyword	drill
keyword	love interest
keyword	sexual attraction
keyword	horniness
keyword	frustration
keyword	gender bias
keyword	chromosome
keyword	masturbation
keyword	roommate
keyword	one word title
keyword	bisexual interest
keyword	male sexuality
keyword	maturation
keyword	alcohol
keyword	confusion
keyword	frog
keyword	vagina
keyword	date
keyword	moaning
keyword	virginity
keyword	testicles
keyword	gender
keyword	female nudity
keyword	gay man
keyword	teenage sex
keyword	physical appearance
keyword	self examination
keyword	doctor
keyword	girlfriend
keyword	argument
keyword	kiss
keyword	bar
keyword	transformation
keyword	bare breasts
keyword	intercourse
keyword	
cast	Taylor Handley	Luke
cast	Dustin Seavey	Keenan
cast	Alison Folland	Janine
cast	Kyle Schmid	Max
cast	Rebecca Mozo	Michelle
cast	Adam Zolotin	Chad
cast	Gina Bellman	Sydney
cast	Chris Meyer	Jeremy
cast	Marieh Delfino	Luca
cast	Rick Stear	Sydney
cast	Kelly LeBrock	Woman in RV
