year	1999
imdb score	8.7
meta score	73
genre	Action
genre	Adventure
genre	Sci-Fi
keyword	computer
keyword	hacker
keyword	computer hacker
keyword	matrix
keyword	reality
keyword	truth
keyword	future
keyword	warrior
keyword	software
keyword	artificial reality
keyword	rebellion
keyword	computer program
keyword	energy
keyword	agent
keyword	messiah
keyword	programmer
keyword	roof chase
keyword	tough guy
keyword	dream sequence
keyword	fistfight
keyword	hinduism
keyword	cyber thriller
keyword	floppy disk
keyword	jumping between buildings
keyword	pill
keyword	knife throwing
keyword	security guard
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	flying man
keyword	what if
keyword	first of trilogy
keyword	acupuncture
keyword	reference to alice in wonderland
keyword	mainframe computer
keyword	mescaline
keyword	men in black
keyword	collectivism
keyword	maya
keyword	slave
keyword	chase on the roof
keyword	humanity in peril
keyword	alternative reality
keyword	kiss of life
keyword	hollow book
keyword	punched in the stomach
keyword	rooftop chase
keyword	sunglasses
keyword	shot through a wall
keyword	swat team
keyword	chosen one
keyword	battery
keyword	character wearing all black
keyword	martial arts
keyword	training
keyword	electro magnetic pulse
keyword	subway station
keyword	neo noir
keyword	disconnected battery
keyword	government agent
keyword	time freeze
keyword	questioning reality
keyword	realization
keyword	technology gone amok
keyword	lasersight
keyword	hit by a subway
keyword	jumping
keyword	bullet time
keyword	transformation
keyword	cat
keyword	robot
keyword	human versus computer
keyword	first part
keyword	strong female lead
keyword	oracle
keyword	fictional war
keyword	blown to pieces
keyword	dream
keyword	traitor
keyword	kung fu
keyword	black cat
keyword	cult film
keyword	telephone
keyword	telephone box
keyword	role reversal
keyword	virus
keyword	irrational behavior
keyword	helicopter
keyword	nuclear winter
keyword	falling from height
keyword	fire sprinkler
keyword	mentor
keyword	explosion
keyword	hand to hand combat
keyword	slavery
keyword	simulated reality
keyword	non person
keyword	tough girl
keyword	slow motion scene
keyword	2190s
keyword	head butt
keyword	gunfight
keyword	cubicle
keyword	deja vu
keyword	m 16
keyword	rescue
keyword	subway
keyword	bullet dodging
keyword	action hero
keyword	prophecy
keyword	police arrest
keyword	inability to speak
keyword	blood spatter
keyword	revolution
keyword	betrayal
keyword	cyberspace
keyword	kiss
keyword	sheath
keyword	christ allegory
keyword	telephone booth
keyword	self sacrifice
keyword	hit by a train
keyword	freedom fighter
keyword	tech noir
keyword	beretta
keyword	removing a battery
keyword	exploding helicopter
keyword	christianity
keyword	foot chase
keyword	wire fu
keyword	obscene finger gesture
keyword	war with machines
keyword	handcuffs
keyword	man versus machine
keyword	sentinel
keyword	pump action shotgun
keyword	location
keyword	false reality
keyword	brawl
keyword	spiral staircase
keyword	reincarnation
keyword	opening action scene
keyword	buddhism
keyword	lucid dream
keyword	white rabbit
keyword	parallel world
keyword	deception
keyword	torture
keyword	blood
keyword	22nd century
keyword	two word title
keyword	combat
keyword	morphing
keyword	metal detector
keyword	brain in a vat
keyword	salvation
keyword	machine gun
keyword	war against machines
keyword	pistol
keyword	mixed martial arts
keyword	broken sunglasses
keyword	dodging bullets
keyword	belief
keyword	energy source
keyword	woman with dark glasses
keyword	police car
keyword	disarming someone
keyword	facing reality
keyword	altered version of studio logo
keyword	555 phone number
keyword	man with dark glasses
keyword	grim reality
keyword	elevator
keyword	artificial human
keyword	flow motion
keyword	dojo
keyword	nightclub
keyword	altruism
keyword	shot to death
keyword	simulator
keyword	interrogation
keyword	virtuality
keyword	truck
keyword	red dress
keyword	abandoned subway station
keyword	spoon
keyword	shot multiple times
keyword	1990s
keyword	lady in red
keyword	watermelon
keyword	plato
keyword	philosophy
keyword	dead boy
keyword	gun fu
keyword	trilogy
keyword	artificial intelligence
keyword	shotgun
keyword	future noir
keyword	20th century
keyword	hypodermic needle
keyword	ringing telephone
keyword	human machine relationship
keyword	shootout
keyword	cell phone
keyword	digital
keyword	shot in the chest
keyword	murder
keyword	virtual reality
keyword	crop
keyword	alternative energy
keyword	religion
keyword	blockbuster
keyword	wearing sunglasses inside
keyword	vomit
keyword	evolution
keyword	no opening credits
keyword	true believer
keyword	reversal of power
keyword	elevator shaft
keyword	black trenchcoat
keyword	crops
keyword	advaita vedanta
keyword	belly button
keyword	simulation
keyword	police shootout
keyword	tattoo
keyword	part of trilogy
keyword	stylized violence
keyword	utopia quest
keyword	one against many
keyword	exploding body
keyword	police officer
keyword	cyberpunk
keyword	post apocalypse
keyword	violence
keyword	punched in the ribs
keyword	sacrifice
keyword	showdown
keyword	revolving door
keyword	gatling gun
keyword	allegory of the cave
keyword	helicopter crash
keyword	one man army
keyword	code
keyword	mexican standoff
keyword	escape
keyword	laser cutter
keyword	trenchcoat
keyword	subterranean
keyword	hero
keyword	shot in the forehead
keyword	title spoken by character
keyword	
cast	Keanu Reeves	Neo
cast	Laurence Fishburne	Morpheus
cast	Carrie-Anne Moss	Trinity
cast	Hugo Weaving	Agent Smith
cast	Gloria Foster	Oracle
cast	Joe Pantoliano	Cypher
cast	Marcus Chong	Tank
cast	Julian Arahanga	Apoc
cast	Matt Doran	Mouse
cast	Belinda McClory	Switch
cast	Anthony Ray Parker	Dozer
cast	Paul Goddard	Agent Brown
cast	Robert Taylor	Agent Jones
cast	David Aston	Rhineheart
cast	Marc Aden Gray	Choi
cast	Ada Nicodemou	Dujour
cast	Deni Gordon	Priestess
cast	Rowan Witt	Spoon Boy
cast	Eleanor Witt	Potential
cast	Tamara Brown	Potential
cast	Janaya Pender	Potential
cast	Adryn White	Potential
cast	Natalie Tjen	Potential
cast	Bill Young	Lieutenant
cast	David O'Connor	FedEx Man
cast	Jeremy Ball	Businessman
cast	Fiona Johnson	Woman in Red
cast	Harry Lawrence	Old Man
cast	Steve Dodd	Blind Man
cast	Luke Quinton	Security Guard
cast	Lawrence Woodward	Guard
cast	Michael Butcher	Cop Who Captures Neo
cast	Bernard Ledger	Big Cop
cast	Robert Simper	Cop
cast	Chris Pattinson	Cop
cast	Nigel Harbach	Parking Cop
cast	Rana Morrison	Shaylae - Woman in Office
