year	1966
imdb score	8.2
meta score	94
genre	Crime
genre	Drama
genre	History
genre	War
keyword	algerian
keyword	french
keyword	independence
keyword	bomb
keyword	government
keyword	revolution
keyword	torture
keyword	liberation
keyword	defeat
keyword	air france
keyword	military
keyword	colonel
keyword	arab
keyword	police
keyword	film projector
keyword	handcuffs
keyword	terrorism
keyword	reporter
keyword	family relationships
keyword	colonial war
keyword	children
keyword	promise
keyword	unity
keyword	trial
keyword	binoculars
keyword	murder
keyword	guillotine
keyword	insurrection
keyword	insurgent
keyword	water well
keyword	donkey
keyword	gang
keyword	drug use
keyword	fighting
keyword	jail
keyword	reading
keyword	basket
keyword	prison
keyword	struggle for independence
keyword	guerrilla
keyword	impoverishment
keyword	courage
keyword	rooftop
keyword	death
keyword	french army
keyword	militant
keyword	freedom
keyword	smoke
keyword	police raid
keyword	prefecture
keyword	coffee
keyword	bombing
keyword	algerian war
keyword	flashlight
keyword	violence
keyword	friend
keyword	pride
keyword	dancing
keyword	law and order
keyword	machine gun
keyword	microphone
keyword	airplane
keyword	police bat
keyword	morale
keyword	pseudo documentary
keyword	newspaper boy
keyword	confusion
keyword	surrender
keyword	liberator
keyword	fascism
keyword	megaphone
keyword	hiding place
keyword	terror bombing
keyword	beheading
keyword	set up
keyword	head in water
keyword	hired killer
keyword	prologue
keyword	fire
keyword	milk bar
keyword	interrogation
keyword	blowtorch
keyword	patient
keyword	debris
keyword	martini
keyword	explosion
keyword	messenger
keyword	poster
keyword	paratrooper
keyword	bomb in basket
keyword	blood
keyword	guerilla
keyword	flashback
keyword	drink
keyword	police captain
keyword	party
keyword	religion
keyword	fear
keyword	criminal
keyword	destruction of property
keyword	suicide
keyword	guard
keyword	clandestine activity
keyword	dead woman on ground
keyword	general strike
keyword	assassin
keyword	motorcycle
keyword	tears
keyword	dying hair
keyword	automatic weapon
keyword	chase
keyword	assassination
keyword	gasworks
keyword	mother daughter relationship
keyword	death sentence
keyword	chaos
keyword	resistance
keyword	running down person with vehicle
keyword	trapped
keyword	brothel madam
keyword	stadium
keyword	beret
keyword	school
keyword	terrace
keyword	stoolie
keyword	commitment
keyword	prayer
keyword	prisoner
keyword	reference to jean paul sartre
keyword	dead woman carried
keyword	restaurant
keyword	french algerian war
keyword	carrying a dead body
keyword	uniform
keyword	ambush
keyword	disorderly conduct
keyword	retreat
keyword	man in woman's clothes
keyword	husband wife relationship
keyword	beating
keyword	cover up
keyword	rain
keyword	gambling
keyword	tapeworm
keyword	reformatory
keyword	loudspeaker
keyword	marketplace
keyword	guerrilla warfare
keyword	news conference
keyword	photograph
keyword	poverty
keyword	street market
keyword	planting bomb
keyword	underground fighting
keyword	police station
keyword	screaming
keyword	suicide by hanging
keyword	gun smuggling
keyword	muslim
keyword	military parade
keyword	diagram
keyword	mobilization
keyword	junkie
keyword	barricade
keyword	street warfare
keyword	terrorist
keyword	search warrant
keyword	reference to god
keyword	trust
keyword	firearm
keyword	avenger
keyword	combat
keyword	tank
keyword	airport
keyword	murder of a police officer
keyword	protest
keyword	horse race
keyword	traitor
keyword	boxer
keyword	prostitute
keyword	informer
keyword	dance hall
keyword	dancer
keyword	revenge
keyword	agitator
keyword	vandalism
keyword	army
keyword	baby
keyword	execution
keyword	dressing
keyword	defenselessness
keyword	marching band
keyword	corruption
keyword	duty
keyword	tunis tunisia
keyword	politics
keyword	territorial guard
keyword	hideout
keyword	running
keyword	wound
keyword	reference to allah
keyword	refugee
keyword	reenactment
keyword	police siren
keyword	place name in title
keyword	french occupation
keyword	warfare
keyword	gunshot wound
keyword	explosive
keyword	veiled woman
keyword	algerian flag
keyword	injury
keyword	battlefield
keyword	communist
keyword	combatant
keyword	revolutionary
keyword	beggar
keyword	french history
keyword	battle
keyword	fight
keyword	city name in title
keyword	doctor
keyword	beach
keyword	year 1957
keyword	jukebox
keyword	stabbing
keyword	arrest
keyword	escape
keyword	infiltration
keyword	mountain
keyword	general
keyword	underwear
keyword	algiers algeria
keyword	policeman
keyword	barber
keyword	bombmaker
keyword	capture
keyword	street fight
keyword	oppression
keyword	united nations debate
keyword	van crash
keyword	vicious cycle
keyword	umbrella
keyword	liberty
keyword	colonialism
keyword	lieutenant colonel
keyword	telephone call
keyword	demonstration
keyword	rebel
keyword	checkpoint
keyword	north africa
keyword	french military
keyword	trap
keyword	dog
keyword	death of boy
keyword	street fighter
keyword	drinking
keyword	le monde
keyword	gun
keyword	slaughter
keyword	curfew
keyword	mediation
keyword	rebellion
keyword	teacher
keyword	cafe
keyword	documentary style
keyword	dock
keyword	barbed wire
keyword	suffering
keyword	degradation
keyword	brothel
keyword	streetfighting
keyword	haircut
keyword	chalk
keyword	draft dodger
keyword	man with glasses
keyword	breaking down a door
keyword	weapon
keyword	soldier
keyword	breaking and entering
keyword	1950s
keyword	friendship
keyword	four word title
keyword	medal
keyword	peace
keyword	sunglasses
keyword	shock troops
keyword	casbah
keyword	hypocrite
keyword	bread
keyword	kicked in the butt
keyword	revolver
keyword	fight for freedom
keyword	street life
keyword	shot point blank
keyword	attack
keyword	search
keyword	coca cola
keyword	electric shock
keyword	mosque
keyword	homelessness
keyword	parade
keyword	algeria
keyword	coward
keyword	playing cards
keyword	blockade
keyword	hidden camera
keyword	wedding
keyword	jeep
keyword	mother son relationship
keyword	united nations general assembly
keyword	dead body
keyword	alley
keyword	crying
keyword	shooting
keyword	whistle
keyword	dignity
keyword	sadist
keyword	algerian history
keyword	scaffold
keyword	army vs civilians
keyword	ladder
keyword	raid
keyword	truck
keyword	destruction
keyword	newsreel footage
keyword	high heels
keyword	bomber
keyword	cigarette smoking
keyword	shot in the back
keyword	napalm
keyword	ambulance
keyword	french soldier
keyword	united nations
keyword	strike
keyword	classroom
keyword	helicopter
keyword	military intervention
keyword	self determination
keyword	bloodshed
keyword	jail cell
keyword	cult film
keyword	blackboard
keyword	bricklayer
keyword	loyalty
keyword	identification
keyword	flash forward
keyword	punched in the face
keyword	patrol
keyword	propane tank
keyword	standoff
keyword	burning papers
keyword	rifle
keyword	
cast	Brahim Hadjadj	Ali La Pointe
cast	Jean Martin	Col. Mathieu
cast	Yacef Saadi	Djafar
cast	Samia Kerbash	One of the girls
cast	Ugo Paletti	Captain
cast	Fusia El Kader	Halima
cast	Omar	
cast	Mohamed Ben Kassen	Petit Omar
cast	Michele Kerbash	Fathia
cast	Franco Morici	
cast	Tommaso Neri	Captain
cast	Gene Wesson	
