year	2002
imdb score	6.2
meta score	65
genre	Drama
genre	Mystery
genre	Romance
genre	Sci-Fi
keyword	space
keyword	planet
keyword	suicide
keyword	space station
keyword	vision
keyword	force
keyword	psychiatrist
keyword	alien contact
keyword	perception
keyword	buttocks
keyword	cosmos
keyword	time
keyword	fuel cell
keyword	dream
keyword	no opening credits
keyword	corpse
keyword	mission
keyword	airlock
keyword	liquid oxygen
keyword	materialism
keyword	subconscious
keyword	passenger train
keyword	foreign language adaptation
keyword	forgiveness
keyword	reality
keyword	physics
keyword	umbrella
keyword	nasa
keyword	flashback
keyword	mind
keyword	doppelganger
keyword	no title at beginning
keyword	nantucket limerick
keyword	future
keyword	theory
keyword	attempted suicide
keyword	mist
keyword	unreliable flashback
keyword	afterlife
keyword	astral projection
keyword	trapped in space
keyword	resurrection
keyword	scream
keyword	reference to dylan thomas
keyword	dream state
keyword	space ship
keyword	rain
keyword	videoconferencing
keyword	space exploration
keyword	spacesuit
keyword	finger cut
keyword	oxygen
keyword	disappearance
keyword	male nudity
keyword	mirror
keyword	box office flop
keyword	neck massage
keyword	loud noise
keyword	pregnancy test
keyword	positive pregnancy test
keyword	sanity
keyword	suicide note
keyword	materialization
keyword	energy source
keyword	widower
keyword	hand
keyword	existentialism
keyword	anxiety
keyword	escape pod
keyword	decaying orbit
keyword	director also cinematographer
keyword	religion
keyword	train
keyword	keeping secret
keyword	morality
keyword	memory
keyword	unwanted pregnancy
keyword	frozen body
keyword	abortion
keyword	body bag
keyword	human alien
keyword	debate
keyword	remake of russian film
keyword	freezer
keyword	eccentric
keyword	title at the end
keyword	poem
keyword	back from the dead
keyword	one word title
keyword	disorder
keyword	outer space
keyword	earth
keyword	philosophical debate
keyword	space travel
keyword	sci fi movie remake
keyword	doorknob
keyword	dead wife
keyword	reassurance
keyword	poetry
keyword	second chance
keyword	crying
keyword	remake
keyword	husband wife relationship
keyword	nudity
keyword	atomic
keyword	gravity
keyword	cycle
keyword	group therapy
keyword	visitor
keyword	intelligence
keyword	blood
keyword	duplication
keyword	megacorporation
keyword	marriage
keyword	based on novel
keyword	title spoken by character
cast	George Clooney	Chris Kelvin
cast	Natascha McElhone	Rheya
cast	Viola Davis	Gordon
cast	Jeremy Davies	Snow
cast	Ulrich Tukur	Gibarian
cast	John Cho	DBA Emissary #1
cast	Morgan Rusler	DBA Emissary #2
cast	Shane Skelton	Gibarian's Son
cast	Donna Kimball	Mrs. Gibarian
cast	Michael Ensign	Friend #1
cast	Elpidia Carrillo	Friend #2
cast	Kent Faulcon	Patient #1
cast	Lauren Cohn	Patient #2
cast	Tony Clemons	Dinner Guest
cast	Jennie Baek	Passenger
cast	Annie Morgan	Nurse
cast	Jude S. Walko	City Dweller
