Fly, The (1986) movie script - Screenplays for You
















var gaJsHost = (("https:" == document.location.protocol) ? "https://ssl." : "http://www.");
document.write(unescape("%3Cscript src='" + gaJsHost + "google-analytics.com/ga.js' type='text/javascript'%3E%3C/script%3E"));


try {
var pageTracker = _gat._getTracker("UA-11048248-1");
pageTracker._trackPageview();
} catch(err) {}



(function(w, c) {
    (w[c] = w[c] || []).push(function() {
        try {
            w.yaCounter2880262 = new Ya.Metrika(2880262);
             yaCounter2880262.clickmap(true);

        } catch(e) {}
    });
})(window, 'yandex_metrika_callbacks');


&lt;div style="position:absolute"&gt;&lt;img src="//mc.yandex.ru/watch/2880262" alt="" /&gt;&lt;/div&gt;





Screenplays for You - free movie scripts and screenplays

About   Links  








Screenplays and movie scripts organized alphabetically:#  A  B  C  D  E  F  G  H  I  J  K  L  M  N  O  P  Q  R  S  T  U  V  W  X  Y  Z   PDF



<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "6005341666";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->


Fly, The (1986) movie scriptby Charles Edward Pogue and David Cronenberg.Based on the Story by     George Langelaan.Transcript.
More info about this movie on IMDb.com


INT. THE BARTOK PARTY- NIGHT

We open on a large white, pristine hall filled with people.
We close in on two such people, SETH BRUNDLE and VERONICA
QUAIFE. They are mid-conversation:

BRUNDLE
What am I working on? Uh... I'm working on something that'll
change the world and human life as we know it.

VERONICA
Change it a lot or just a bit? You'll have to be more
specific.

BRUNDLE
What, you want me to be specific here, in this room, with,
uh... half the scientific community of North America
eavesdropping?

VERONICA
Is there another way?

BRUNDLE
You could come back to my lab. Listen, I'll make you
cappuccino. I have a Faema of my very own. You know what
that is? It's not the Dilettante's plastic kitchen model.
It's one of those, uh... uh., uh, real restaurant espresso
machines with a-an eagle on top and...

VERONICA
Somehow I get the feeling you don't get out much.

BRUNDLE
You can tell that?

VERONCA
Yeah.

BRUNDLE
I think you're making a mistake. I think you really want to
talk to me.

VERONICA
Sorry, I have three other interviews to do before this
party's over.

BRUNDLE
Yeah, but they're not working on something that'll change
the world as we know it.

VERONICA
They say they are.

BRUNDLE
Yeah, but they're lying I'm not.

INT. VERONICA'S CAR- NIGHT

We close in on Veronica's car as it speeds down the street.
It appears that Brundle is ill.

VERONICA
Are you sick?

BRUNDLE
No. Sure.

VERONICA
You're not a very accomplished drunk.

BRUNDLE
No, no, I'm always like this. It's, uh... motion sickness.
When I was a kid, I, uh... puked on my tricycle. I hate
vehicles.

VERONICA
Should I drive more slowly?

BRUNDLE
No, no, no. Just turn left. We're almost there.

VERONICA
This is it?

BRUNDLE
It's cleaner on the inside.

INT. WAREHOUSE STAIRWAY-NIGHT

Veronica and Brundle climb the warped wooden stairs to the
fourth floor. Brundle is breathing hard, very out of shape.
He uses the ornate railing to haul himself from step to
step.

VERONICA
Nice railings.

BRUNDLE (BREATHING HARD)
Yeah. They're original.

VERONICA
You doing marine experiments?

BRUNDLE
No, why?

VERONICA
That fishy smell.

BRUNDLE:
Oh, that. Used to be a packing house for fish. It's deserted
right now except for me. I've got the whole fourth floor.
The top floor.

VERONICA
Want me to carry you?

BRUNDLE
Maybe next time.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT

Brundle and Veronica enter BRUNDLES LAB. It seems very tidy
and organised as well as being extremely Spacious.
     Brundle sits down and begins playing on his Piano.


VERONICA
Listen, uh... maybe this is a bad idea.

BRUNDLE
No, it's too late. You've already see them. Can't let you
leave here alive.

VERONICA
I haven't seen anything.

BRUNDLE
Those.

Brundle motions towards two gray pods either side of the
room.

VERONICA
Designer phone booths. Very cute. Hey, I bet you have a
really neat jukebox in here, too, someplace, huh? Over there
maybe?

Veronica points toward a third object, covered in tarpaulin.
Brundle reveals it as a third pod.

BRUNDLE
No. This is the prototype of... those. The first one I had
made. It, uh... it works, but it's clunky. I call them
telepods. They're controlled by this.

VERONICA
Thank God for that. So, uh, what do they do, the phone
booths?

BRUNDLE
Telepods. Uh... okay. I need an object. Um... say, do you
have something, uh, on you that's... uh, personal... that I
could use? Something uniquely you? Uh... an item of clothing
or jewelry?

VERONICA
What, are you kidding?

BRUNDLE
No, I'm serious.

VERONICA
Okay. Here goes.

Veronica removes her stocking and hands it to Brundle.

BRUNDLE
 I don't wear jewelry.

BRUNDLE
It's nice.

Brundle places the stocking into a pod and closes the door.
He then goes back to the computer and speaks into the
microphone.

BRUNDLE
Uh... Brundle, Seth.

COMPUTER (Relaying and testing Brundle's voice pattern)
Uh, Brundle, Seth. Uh, Brundle, Seth. Uh, Brundle, Seth.

BRUNDLE
Begin teleportation sequence.

The computer goes through it's teleportation protocol and
the pod containing the stocking flashes, this flash is
repeated by the second pod on the opposite side of the room.

BRUNDLE
Well?

VERONICA
Great. The world's largest microwave oven. I-I'm glade I
didn't give you my Rolex. If I had Rolex.

BRUNDLE
No, you're missing the point. Look.

Veronica glaces at the Computer, which reads "Teleportation
successful."

VERONICA
Teleportation?

Brundle leads Ronnie to the Second Pod where she discovers
the Stocking.

VERONICA
Oh... wait a minute. Is that a hologram? Where's my
stocking?

BRUNDLE
That's it. The real one. Go ahead, pick it up.

Veronica reaches in and retrieves the stocking.

VERONICA
I don't think I get it. What happened?

BRUNDLE
You get it, all right. You just can't handle it. Um... your
stocking has just been teleported... from one pod... to
another. Uh, disintegrated... there and re-integrated there.
Mmm, sort of. It'll change the world as we know it,
right?

As she speaks, Veronica pulls a dictaphone from her pocket
and begins recording the conversation.

VERONICA
Oh, no! This is, uh... This is incredible! I mean, it's not
possible, is it? How have you managed to keep this quiet?

BRUNDLE
Please sit down.

The enter the kitchen area and Veronica sits down at the
table. Brundle begins working with his cappuchino machine.

VERONICA
How could you do this alone?

BRUNDLE
Well, I don't work alone. There's a lot of stuff in there I
don't even understand. I'm really,uh... a systems management
man. I farm... bits and pieces, uh, out to guys who are much
more brilliant than I am. I say... "Build me a laser this,
design me a molecular analyzer that," and they do, and I
just stick'em together. But, uh, none of them knows what the
project really is. So...

Brundle shows off the eagle from his Cappuchino machine.

VERONICA
Wow! And, uh,the money? Bartok Science Industries financed
this?

BRUNDLE
Mm-hmm. But th-they leave me alone 'cause I'm not expensive.
And, uh, they know they'll end up owning it all, whatever it
is. So...

VERONICA
You haven't told them?

BRUNDLE
When I'm ready.

VERONICA
Oh... wait a second.

The tape on Veronica's dictaphone has run out, so she begins
to change sides.

BRUNDLE
What's that? What are you doing?

VERONICA
Well... you want me to get the quotes right, don't you?

BRUNDLE
Quotes? No, no. I thought this was personal. You can't write
about this.

VERONICA
What are you talking about? I'm a journalist.

BRUNDLE
Oh, no, no, no,..!

VERONICA
You knew that.

BRUNDLE
Uh... I'm sorry. I apologize. I made a mistake. I shouldn't
have shown you this. I'm very, very... sorry.

VERONICA
Listen... Particle magazine sent me to that party to get a
story. And this is the most exciting thing... I've ever
seen.

BRUNDLE
No, no! Absolutely not. In fact, I'm gonna have to ask you
for that... tape, please.

VERONICA
Hey, you can't do that!

BRUNDLE
Don't you dare write a story! I'd never have told and of
this stuff to a journalist.

VERONICA
But you did tell this stuff to a journalist.

Veronica begins to exit the lab.

BRUNDLE
Well, yeah, in a way I suppose i did, but that...

VERONICA
You sure did.

BRUNDLE
Now wait a minute, wait a minute! Wait! Come here! What
about your... stocking!

VERONICA
Keep it for good luck.

Veronica leaves Seth standing alone in his lab.

INT. STATHIS'S OFFICE
Veronica is sat with STATHIS BORANS, her Editor. They listen
to the tape.

VERONICA
Well... that's it. What do you think?

STATHIS
It's a joke.

VERONICA
What?

STATHIS
He's conning you. Oh, it's an old nightclub routine. The two
cabinets. And you fell for it.

VERONICA
Wait a minute. That was no nightclub.

Stathis's phone rings.

STATHIS
Are we having lunch?

VERONICA
Listen, that was no nightclub routine! I was there! I saw
it!

Stathis talks to his assistant over the phone.

STATHIS
Yeah? Sure... send him in.
You must have made an impression.

VERONICA
What do you mean?

STATHIS
Your magician has followed you here.

STATHIS'S ASSISTANT shows Seth in.

STATHIS
I'm Stathis Borans. I'm the editor of Particle magazine.

BRUNDLE
Uh, Seth Brundle. Uh...

STATHIS
Oh, I know who you are... Uh, listen, uh... why don't you
two use my office? I've gotta run. If you plan to make
anything disappear, please... let me know. I've got an
assistant editor who's outlived his usefulness.

Stathis leaves.

BRUNDLE
You didn't waste any time.

VERONICA
I'm not getting any younger.

BRUNDLE
He didn't seem, he wasn't impressed by your tape?

VERONICA
He thinks you're a con man.

BRUNDLE
Excellent!

VERONICA
Yeah? Well let's see what the people at Omni think about it.

BRUNDLE
No, no! Uh, listen, Veronica... I've come here to say one
magic word to you.

VERONICA
Yeah?

BRUNDLE
Cheeseburger.

INT. A FAST FOOD RESTURANT- DAY

In a busy fast food resturant, we close in on Brundle and
Veronica, who are sat eating and conversing.

BRUNDLE
I've been working alone too long. I have a strong urge, uh,
to talk about what I'm doing. But, um, if this gets out
now... Veronica, it'll kill me. The Bartok people'll kill
me... my colleagues'll kill me. It's not ready yet.

VERONICA
It seems to work okay.

BRUNDLE
No, something important's missing.

BERONICA
Yeah?

BRUNDLE
Yeah.

VERONICA
Which is?

BRUNDLE
I can only teleport inanimate objects.

VERONICA
Well, what happens when you try to teleport living things?

BRUNDLE
Not while we're eating.

VERONICA
Can't be worse than this. Listen, you're not doing a very
good job of convincing me. I think the world should know
about it now  and I think I should be the one to tell it.

BRUNDLE
You should tell it, but, uh... not yet. Look, what do you
got so far?

VERONICA
Enough to make you nervous.

BRUNDLE
Why not get more? let me become your major project. I'm
talking about a book. Not a magazine article. Follow me and
my work day by day in as much detail as you can stand. I
don't have a life, so there's nothing for you to...
interfere with. Research the background. Cover the process.
The complete record of the most... earth-shattering
invention ever. The one that ended all concepts of
transport, of borders and frontiers, of time and space. And
the book'll end... with me... transporting myself fifteen
feet through space from one telepod to another. That's
what's really missing... Wait for me that long.

INT. VERONICA'S APARTMENT

Veronica enters her apartment and hears the distant sound of
a shower from her bathroom. She enters the rooom to discover
Stathis taking a shower.

VERONICA
What are you doing in my apartment?

STATHIS
I just happened to be in the neighbourhood. Felt a bit
scummy. Rough day.

As Veronica leaves she flushes the toilet and Stathis
screams.

CUT TO: Stathis and Veronica in Veronica's living room.
Stathis is drying his hair while sat down.

VERONICA
How did you get in?

STATHIS
I have a key, remember? You gave it to me.

VERONICA
I knew I should have changed the lock.

STATHIS
I knew you wouldn't.

VERONICA
Yeah?

STATHIS
Yeah. That's because... unconsciously... you still want me
to come back, move in again.

VERONICA
No. That's because, very consciously, I'm lazy and
disorganized.

STATHIS
Your new playmate's an interesting guy.

VERONICA
What playmate?

STATHIS
The nightclub act. Brundle.

VERONICA
Yeah?

STATHIS
Yeah. Yeah, I was wrong. He's really... quite brilliant. He
was the leader
of the F-three-two team. Remember that? An inch away from
the Nobel Prize for
physics. He was only twenty at the time.

VERONICA
Um... I don't even think I'm gonna do Brundle. I'm still
considering the Psychology Today gig.

STATHIS
That's not like you.

VERONICA
Are you getting out or am I?

STATHIS
I'll go. I have to put this issue to bed. You want me to
come back later and tuck you... in?

VERONICA
No. Key.

STATHIS
I'll keep it... for old time's sake.

VERONICA
You're a petty schmuck!

INT. BRUNDLES LAB

Brundle is sat typing at his Computer as Veronica films him
. We see a baboon sat in Telepod 1. Brundle finishes typing.

BRUNDLE
Initiate in five seconds.

After 5 seconds, The baboon teleports into Pod 2. Veronica
is still filming as Brundle trys to peer through the smoke
into the recieving pod. Suddenly a blood soaked paw smashes
against the window. Seth reluctantly opens the pod to
discover the mangled, spasming remains of the dying baboon.

CUT TO:
Seth stands behind Pod 2 as Veronica focuses the Camera on
him.

VERONICA
We've got to do this Seth. Talk to the tape, get in the
habit. the world will want to know what you're thinking.

BRUNDLE
Fuck is what I'm thinking!

VERONICA
Good. The World will want to know that. What else? Why
didn't it work?

BRUNDLE
I think it turned the baboon inside out.

VERONICA
Why?

BRUNDLE
It can't deal with he flesh. It only seems to work with
inanimate objects, nothing that's living. It must be my
fault.

VERONICA
Why?

BRUNDLE
Computers are dumb, they only know what you tell them. I
must not know enough about the flesh myself, I'm going to
have to learn. I don't want to talk anymore.

Seth turns and walks away.

INT. BRUNDLES BEDROOM- NIGHT

Brundle is laid out on his bed and Veronica is sat gently
swaying on a rocking chair in the corner of the room.

VERONICA
Do you ever change your clothes?

BRUNDLE
What?

VERONICA
Your clothes, you're always wearing the same clothes.

BRUNDLE
No, these are clean. I change my clothes every day.

VERONICA
Five sets of exactly the same clothes?

BRUNDLE
Ordered from Einstein. This ways I don't have to spend any
thought on what I'm going to wear, I just grab the next set
on the rack.

VERONICA
I bought some steaks. Can I make you one?

BRUNDLE
We could go out?

VERONICA
"Cheeseburger"?

BRUNDLE
No. We don't have to go there.

VERONICA
You're very cute, you know that?

BRUNDLE
Am I?

Veronica and Brundle begin to Kiss.

INT. BRUNDLES BEDROOM- NIGHT

We pan in on Brundle and Veronica making love on Brundle's
bed. Brundle lays back on the bed and jumps up in pain
suddenly.

BRUNDLE
Ohh Ahh, My back.

Veronica examines Seth's back to discover a small Computer
chip stuck to it.

VERONICA
Oh god, Something's stuck to your back.

BRUNDLE
Well pull it off.

Veronica slowly pulls out the chip and Shows it to Brundle.

VERONICA
Sorry.

BRUNDLE
I wondered what happened to that!

VERONICA
Do you have any disinfectant?

BRUNDLE
No, it's okay.

VERONICA
I'm going to kiss it for you!

Veronica kisses Brundle's back and playfully bites his arm.

VERONICA
I'm sorry. I just want to eat you up. You know, that's why
old ladies pinch babies cheeks. It's the flesh. it just
makes you crazy.

BRUNDLE
Ronnie, Ronnie. You want to try an experiment?

VERONICA
Sure.

INT. BRUNDLES KITCHEN- NIGHT

BRUNDLE
Eat this. I need an objective opinion. Yes?

VERONICA
Well, it could use some Finesse, but it tastes like a steak.

BRUNDLE
Okay, Now try this, teleported half.

VERONICA
Are you serious? A monkey just came apart in there!

BRUNDLE
Baboon. Eat.

VERONICA
Ohh, it tastes funny.

BRUNDLE
Funny how?

VERONICA
It tastes, synthetic. So what have we proved?

BRUNDLE
The computer is giving us it's interpretation of a steak.
It's translating it for us, it's re-thinking it rather than
reproducing it, and something's getting lost in the
translation.

VERONICA
Me. I'm lost.

BRUNDLE
The flesh. It should make the computer crazy, like those old
ladies pinching babies. But it doesn't, not yet. I haven't
tought it to be made crazy by the flesh, the poultry, the
steak. So I'm going to start teaching it now!

INT. A CLOTHES SHOP- DAY

Veronica picks put a leather Jacket. when she walks over to
the counter, she spots Stathis spying on her.

VERONICA
What are you doing here?

STATHIS
I followed you. "Psychology Today" My ass. You stayed with
brundle all night. Why didn't I believe you? I wonder.

Stathis takes the jacket.

STATHIS
Oh yeah. I think he'd look great in this, Don't you? I mean,
for your "Time Magazine" cover, you've got to look good
right?

VERONICA
Don't you get it? I am finally onto something that's big.
Huge.

STATHIS
Oh yeah? What? His Cock?

VERONICA
Crude Stathis. Very crude.

STATHIS
Too perfect to believe! You're a goddess! Thank you for
making my most paranoid fantasies come true!

VERONICA
I don't have to report to you, you creep!

STATHIS
Ronnie! You've got to talk to me!

VERONICA
I don't have to do anything! We're finished, remember? I'll
spend the night anywhere I damn well please.

Veronica walks away and pays for the jacket.

VERONICA
Sorry. I'll take this too.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT

Brundle is mid way through teleporting another baboon.
Veronica films as the baboon bounces out of Pod 2, and into
Brundle's arms

BRUNDLE
I think it's time for champagne.

CUT TO:
Brundle and Veronica are sat near the piano drinking and
celebrating.

VERONICA
Oh god Seth. It's really happened. You did it. You'll never
have to get car sick again!

BRUNDLE
Or air sick, or sea sick.

VERONICA
I know, I know. Or Tricycle sick! What's next?

BRUNDLE
We'll send the baboon out for tests, see if he's really
okay.

VERONICA
How long will that take?

BRUNDLE
Could be weeks.

VERONICA
Really?

BRUNDLE
Yeah. Why?

VERONICA
Well I was thinking, that we could take a Holiday.

BRUNDLE
We could?

VERONICA
Yeah. Like an old married couple. Old man's got a couple of
weeks off so they go to Florida. Someplace warm. Just the
two of us?

BRUNDLE
Just you and me?

VERONICA
Yeah, why? Is there someone else you were thinking of
Bringing along?

BRUNDLE
No, No. Is this a romance we're having, is that what it is?

VERONICA
Yeah, Could be a romance.

BRUNDLE
Oh I have a great idea, Do you like Chinese food?

Brundle walks over to his desk and picks up the phone.

VERONICA
Yes.

BRUNDLE
We're going to have a very romantic dinner right here.

VERONICA
Hey what's this?

Veronica picks up a folder with the words "From the desk of
Stathis Borans" on it.

BRUNDLE
Oh yeah, from your Editor. I'm sorry, someone slipped it
under the door. Hello Victor, yeah it's Seth Brundle. Oh
yeah, I'll wait.

Veronica opens the folder to discover a mock "Particle
Magazine" cover, with a picture of Brundle, two telepods and
the words "Teleportation: A reality?" and "Seth Brundle,
youthful father of a new age.".

VERONICA
Oh no.

BRUNDLE
What?

VERONICA
Oh nothing, it's just personal bullshit.

BRUNDLE
I thought old married couples shared all their personal
bullshit, that's how they stayed old and married.

VERONICA
Listen Seth, Don't rush it.

BRUNDLE
What are you talking about "Rush it"?

VERONICA
Look, I have to go out for a few hours.

BRUNDLE
Now? No, Ronnie! Spicy Egg plant, the champagne!

VERONICA
Just for a few hours. I still have the residue of another
life, you know, I have to scrape it off my shoe and get rid
of it once and for all.

Veronica leaves and someone answers the phone to Seth.

BRUNDLE
Hi.

INT. STATHIS'S OFFICE- NIGHT

Veronica enters Stathis's office, and throws the folder onto
his desk.

VERONICA
What's this supposed to mean?

STATHIS
It means that I'm your editor and I'm shaping your material
into a story.

VERONICA
You're the one who told me there was no story. You said
Brundle was a Con man.

STATHIS
I've decided to trust your Journalistic instincts.

VERONICA
Thanks very much. But this is not your story. It's mine.

STATHIS
Says who? I sent you to the Bartok party to see what you
could find. Your discovery is my discovery. I have a LOT of
background on Brundle. He's been working on this thing for 6
years. There's material out there if you dig deep. I dug.

VERONICA
Stathis. Everything that has to do with transportation will
become obsolete. And I am right there in the middle of it.
The only recorder of the event from the inside-out.

STATHIS
Okay. Okay. Look, keep me informed? As a friend? As a
professional confidant?

VERONICA
That's all?

STATHIS
I don't want you to disappear from my life.

VERONICA
Okay.

STATHIS
What about Sex? I'm not saying love, or affection. Just
stress relieving Sex. You and me.

VERONICA
You're disgusting. As always.

STATHIS
Wouldn't want to disappoint you.

INT. BRUNDLE'S LAB- NIGHT

Brundle is stood drinking and talking to the baboon, who is
sat in the chair.

BRUNDLE
Residue means her old Boyfriend. Stathis Borans is her old
boyfriend. "from the desk of Stathis Borans". How about
"Under the desk of Stathis Borans."? She's working for her
old boyfriend. Now she runs out late to see him. What is
this, "The Ronnie Game"? I'm catching on, I'm catching on. I
didn't mean to kill your brother. But he didn't die in vain,
if that's of any comfort. And as the general said; "There's
nothing I'd ask you to that I wouldn't do myself boys." Hey
you're alright. Looking at you I can tell you're okay. What
are we waiting for? Let's do it.

Brundle slams down his glass and heads for the computer.

CUT TO:
The timer begins to countdown as Brundle enters the telepod.
He sits facing the door and fails to notice a small house
fly enter the pod with him. The door shoots and locks.
     The baboon jumps up and over to the Pod, it peers through
at Brundle, who smiles and reaches out. The fly, meanwhile
rests in the viewing port, safe out of reach.
     The telepod boots up and Brundle prepares himself.
Suddenly, The Fly moves out of the port and into the pod.
Brundle is teleported.

The baboon shifts it's gaze o Pod 2, from where Brundle
emerges.
Into Brundle's arms jumps the baboon.

BRUNDLE
How're you doing? Now you tell me. Am I different somehow?
Is it live or is it memorex? It's too bad Ronnie missed it.

INT. BRUNDLES BEDROOM- NIGHT

Veronica enters the Bedroom and sits next to Brundle, who
wakes.

BRUNDLE
I missed you last night.

VERONICA
It's still night. I came back. You had to celebrate without
me. I'm sorry.

BRUNDLE
I went through last night.

VERONICA
You went through? Without testing the baboon?

BRUNDLE
I-I-I was... drunk. I was a bit upset.

VERONICA
You could have killed yourself!

BRUNDLE
Are you sleeping with Stathis Borans?

Brundle wraps the sheet around himself and stands up.

VERONICA
What are you talking about?

BRUNDLE
I-I-I don't know. I-I just, um, get that feeling.

VERONICA
That's why you were upset?

BRUNDLE
I got jealous.

Brundle takes a seat in the kitchen and Veronica sits on his
lap.

VERONICA
Oh, God. Seth... you don't have to be jealous. He's an old
boy... friend. He was teaching at college. I was a science
major. He got me started in journalism.

BRUNDLE
Is he still in love with you?

VERONICA
How could he not be? Hey... wh-what about our deal? You went
through
and I wasn't there.

BRUNDLE
Don't worry. I taped it for you.

VERONICA
You did?

BRUNDLE
Yeah.

They begin kissing and Veronica slides her hand down his
back, she doesn't notice the small hairs that are beginning
to protude from the cut in his back.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- DAY

Brundle and Veronica are laid next to each other in Bed.
They Both appear to be asleep. Suddenly Brundles hand
reaches out and grabs the air. Brundle opens his eyes and
his fist to see that he caught a house fly. He looks around,
then gets out of bed.

CUT TO:
Time passes and Veronica wakes up. She slips on a shirt and
goes into the lab. She sits down and watches as Brundle
excersises on a chait. He uses his hands on the arms to lift
himself up and down. He then goes over to a steel bar which
stretches across part of the lab and swings back and forth
on it. He appears to be very energetic and experienced at
what he is doing. He lifts himself up, and then swings back
down onto the floor. He turns around to See Veronica, who
stand up and rests her hand on Brundle's chest.

CUT TO:
T.V. IMAGES From time to time we cut to the live (film)
version of these same images. When we are live, we also see
reactions from Veronica. Brundle is being interviewed in
CLOSE-UP; VERONICA SPEAKS OFF-CAMERA.

VERONICA (OC:
We've just seen the first teleportation of a human being.
Dr. Seth Brundle, how did it feel going through? What did it
feel like?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE:
It feels like a stutter.

VERONICA:
A what?

BRUNDLE:
A stutter. A hiccup. A slight dislocation of my physical
life. Not unpleasant. Just a little interuption of rhythym.
For a second I thought it didn't work. I thought I was in
the same telepod I started out in.

VERONICA (OC):
 And did you feel at all different?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE):
 A little...unbalanced. That's all.

VERONICA (OC):
 And now?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE)
 I should feel exactly the same as before, but I don't. I'm
not complaining. I feel very co-ordinated. And very
energized. I feel as though I work better, physically.
Everthing seems to just - work together better than it ever
did before.

VERONICA (OC):
Why should that be?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE):
It's possible that the teleporter has somehow...improved me.

VERONICA (OC):
But that's fantastic! How is it possible?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE):
 In reassembling me it might have - this is just a guess -
but it might have just - seen where things could be improved
- theoretically, and it did it. I told it to be creative,
and I guess it has been.

VERONICA (OC):
Could this ever be dangerous?

BRUNDLE:
Well, it's certainly unexpected. The monkeys haven't shown
any change from their norm. We'll see when they come back
from testing.

VERONICA:
 You still haven't answered me. Could this ever be
dangerous?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE):
 It feels too perfect to be dangerous.

VERONICA:
You like the way it feels?

BRUNDLE (ON TAPE):
 Yes, I do. (BIG SMILE) Want to try it?

CUT TO:
CU VERONICA live. She shakes her head "No".

EXT. THE STREETS- DAY

Brundle and Veronica walk down the busy street. They stop at
a small jewellers in a market and Brundle picks out a
neckelace for Veronica.

INT. COFFEE SHOP- DAY

Veronica and Brundle are sat opposite each other in a small
coffee shop.

BRUNDLE
So, I asked the computer if it improved me and it said it
didn't know what I was talking about. And that's made me
think very carefully about what I've been feeling, and why.
And I'm beginning to think that the sheer process of being
taken apart atom by atom and put back together again, why
it's like coffee being put through a filter. It's somehow a
purifying process. It's purified me, it's cleansed me. And I
tell you, I think it's going to allow me to realise the
personal potential, I've been neglecting all these years.
That I've been obsessively pursuing goal after goal.

Veronica notices that Brundle has filled his cup almost to
the top with sugar.

VERONICA
Do you normally take coffee with your sugar?

BRUNDLE
What? Heh. You know I just don't think I've ever given me, a
chance to be me. But, of course Interestingly, and the exact
same moment that I achieved what will probably prove to be
my life's work, that's the moment when I started being the
real me finally. Listen, not to wax messianic. It may be
true that the synchronicity of those two events might blur
the resultant individual effect of either individual. But it
is nevertheless it is also certainly true, I will say now
however subjectively; that Human teleportation, molecular
decimation, breakdown and reformation is inherently purging.
It makes a man a King. From the moment I walked out of the
pod I felt like a million bucks. You know , I think I am
gonna have a cemoli after all. Waiter! I mean, What an
accomplishment.
But, what have I really done? All I've done is say to the
world, "Lets go, Move. Catch me if you can". Waiter. Jesus
Christ!


INT. BRUNDLES LAB- DAY

We pan through Brundle's lab to discover Brundle and
Veronica making love on the couch. Veronica is half wearing
a dressing gown.

VERONICA
How? How can you keep going? You can't have... have any
fluid left in your body. We've been doing this for hours.

BRUNDLE
Uhhhh, I'm not ready to quit yet. Hey, come on.

VERONICA]
No.

BRUNDLE
Come on.

Veronica moves her hand down Brundle's back and finds think
hairs protruding from the cuts in his back, left by the
computer chip.

VERONICA
What's this?

BRUNDLE
It's an attempt to distract me, that's what it is.

VERONICA
No, really, what is it? It's like, hairs or something.

BRUNDLE
I don't know. It's... It happens when you get older. Weird
hair configurations. I don't know.

VERONICA
They are really coarse.

BRUNCLE
Well, I've never really been hairy enough. You know what I
mean? Always too... boyish. I'm looking forward to a hairy
body.

VERONICA
No, I...

BRUNDLE
It's one of the compensations of old age. Come here. Where
are you going?

VERONICA
No, let me go.

Veronica stands up and Wraps the dressing gown around her.
She stands up and goes into the kitchen. Brundle puts
underwear on and gets some ice cream from the freezer. He
sits down and begins eating. Veronica, using a pair of
scissors, tried to cut the hairs from his back.

BRUNDLE
Okay. Hey, hey, hey! Not my new hairs. What are you doing?

VERONICA
Relax, Brundle. I don't really think you want a body covered
with these. God! They're... really tough.

Suddenly, Brundle drops the spoon and stands up. As he talks
he walks with Ronnie towards the telepods.

BRUNDLE
Listen... I want you to go through. I want to teleport you
as soon as possible. Right now! You'll feel incredible.
Ronnie... I hardly need to sleep anymore and I feel
wonderful. It's like a drug, but a perfectly pure and benign
drug. The power I feel surging inside me! And I won't be
able to wear you out. We'll be the perfect couple. The
dynamic duo! Come on, right now!

VERONICA
No! Hey, wait! Don't give me that born-again teleportation
rap. I-I told you I'm scared to do it! What more do I have
to say? I'm... not gonna do it!!!

Veronica pulls herself away.

BRUNDLE
You're a fucking drag, you know that?

VERONICA
Something went wrong, Seth. When you went through, something
went wrong.

BRUNDLE
No? Not you? If you're too chickenshit to be a member of the
dynamic duo club, okay then, great. I'll find somebody else.
Somebody who can keep up with me.

VERONICA
Seth, you have to listen to me.

Brundle gets dressed and heads for the door.

BRUNDLE
You're afraid to dive into the plasma pool, aren't you?
You're afraid to be destroyed and recreated, aren't you?
I'll bet you think that you woke me up about the flesh,
don't you? But you only know society's straight line about
the flesh. You can't penetrate beyond society's sick gray
fear of the flesh! Drink deep or taste not the plasma
spring! You see what I'm saying? I'm not just talking about
sex and penetration, I'm talking about penetration beyond
the veil of the flesh! A deep, penetrating dive into the
plasma pool!

Brundle leaves Veronica standing shocked in the lab. As he
walks down the corridor he jumps up and hits a light shade.

EXT. THE STREETS- NIGHT

Brundle walks down the street,  from his pocket he pulls a
chocolate bar which he begins to eat.

INT. A BAR- NIGHT

Brundle enters the Bar. Sitting at the Bar itself is TAWNY,
meanwhile MARKY and MAN IN BAR are armwrestling.

BRUNDLE
I'll have a scotch.
Who's winning?

TAWNY
I don't know. I hope it's Marky.

BRUNDLE
How come?

TAWNY
Because; I like Marky tonight.

BRUNDLE
Well, I like you tonight. Maybe I should get involved in
this too.

MARKY
Hey pal. You're disturbing us.

BRUNDLE
I got a hundred bucks says I can beat either one of you.

MARKY
Take a hike, asshole!

BRUNDLE
Here. Here's my hundred. And, I get to take the lady home
for the night if I win.

TAWNY
Says Who? do I look like a hooker to you?

MARKY
Hey Tawny, it's an easy hundred. Come on pal, let's get it
over with.

MAN IN BAR
You better watch out. He eats chocolate bars.

MARKY
Yeah, So I noticed.

Brundle and Marky start the armwrestle. Marky begins to look
worried and a white pus seems to be coming from Brundle's
hand. With a flip of his hand, Brundle snaps the bone in
Marky's wrist. Brundle stands up, grabs Tawny, and leaves.

EXT. THE STREETS- NIGHT

Brundle and Tawny walk down the street chatting.

TAWNY
Are you a body builder or something?

BRUNDLE
Yeah I build bodies. I take them apart and then I put them
back together again.

TAWNY
Why, you certainly took Marky apart.

BRUNDLE
Let's go back to my place.

TAWNY
Your place? Yeah Well, I live with my Mother anyway. But can
we maybe go to a few more bars first? It's a little too
early to quit.

BRUNDLE
Sure a few more bars.

EXT. BRUNDLES LAB- EARLY MORNING

A taxi pulls up outside Brundle's lab. From it emerge
Brundle and Tawny.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- EARLY MORNING

Brundle and Tawny are walking up the stairs to Brundle's
apartment. Tawny sits on the steps.

TAWNY
Great place. There's no elevator. I can't make it.

BRUNDLE
Oh there's an elevator.

Brundle picks Tawny up.
BRUNDLE
There. Don't you feel elevated?

Brundle runs at a fast, continuous pace up the stairs with
Tawny in his arms.

TAWNY
Woah!


INT. BRUNDLES LAB- EARLY MORNING
While Tawny Watches, Brundle teleports himself. He emerges
naked and stands before Tawny.

TAWNY
Wow. Are you some sort of a magician?

BRUNDLE
Yes.

Brundle lays on Tawny and begins to kiss her.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- DAY
Tawny and Seth are Sat on Seth's bed. Tawny appears to be
rather laid back, but Brundle is the opposite; he is hunched
over and has a tight look on hid face.

TAWNY
So, are we going to breakfast or not?

BRUNDLE
It's your turn.

TAWNY
To do what?

BRUNDLE
I want you to go through.

TAWNY
No. I don't want to try that.

BRUNDLE
Why not? It'll make you feel sexy!

TAWNY
I already feel sexy. How about... A nice alcohol rub?

Tawny Pours some alchohol onto her hand but Brundle knocks
the bottle onto the floor.

BRUNDLE
Don't do that, it hurts!

BRUNDLE
Sorry Hon'. I didn't know you had the skin of a Princess.
You're real sensitive huh?

Tawny tries to massage Brundle's back, but he pulls her away
and tries to drag her into the lab area. He doesn't realise
that Veronica has entered the lab.

BRUNDLE
Okay, okay! Now you're going to like it!

TAWNY
I don't want to! I'm afraid!

BRUNDLE
Don't be afraid!

VERONICA
No. Be afraid. Be very afraid.

TAWNY
Who's this?

BRUNDLE
Oh, I forgot to tell you, I live with my mother, too. Mum,
meet Tawny.

TAWNY
I gotta go. Thanks for a wonderful time.

Tawny picks up her clothes and leaves.

BRUNDLE
Why'd you scare her off? Jealous?

VERONICA
You're changing. Seth. Everything about you is changing. You
look bad. You smell bad.

BRUNDLE
I've never been much of a bather.

VERONICA
Those... weird hairs that were growing out of your back, I
took them to a lab. I had them analyzed.

BRUNDLE
The hairs? Oh... yeah, that's a strange thing to do.

VERONICA
Not as strange as the results. The guy at the lab had
trouble identifying them. He finally came to the
conclusion... that they were definitely not human.

BRUNDLE
Oh! Very good.

VERONICA
Not human... Seth. In fact... very likely insect hairs.

BRUNDLE
That's silly. That's ridiculous.

VERONICA
Look. Now there's more. Uh, look at your face! Something
happened when you went through, Seth. You've got to get some
help. I think you must be sick.

BRUNDLE
You're jealous!!! I've become free, I've been released, and
you can't stand it! You'll so anything to bring me down.
Look at me. Does this look sick? Does this look like a sick
man to you?

Brundle starts punching a support beam attatched to the
corner of the wall. As he punches it parts of it exlode out,
and buckle.

VERONICA
No! Stop it!

BRUNDLE
Do you know any sick men who can do that? Come here!

Brundle pulls Veronica and throws her out of the door.

VERONICA
No... Seth!

BRUNDLE
The deal is off! I don't need you anymore.

VERONICA
No, wait! Seth, please, wait! Seth!

Brundle pulls the door shut and locks it.
BRUNDLE
Don't come back!

VERONICA
Oh, God! Oh, my God.

We stay with Veronica as she slowly walks down the corridor.

CUT TO:
Brundle enters his Bathroom and seems worried when he
examines himself in the mirror. He tries to shave with an
electric razor, which hurts so Brundle throws it into the
bath and destroys it.
     He then looks back in the mirror and bites his nail,
which comes off in his teeth, He squeezes the end which
projects a white liquid onto the mirror. He then pulls
another nail off before sitting on the rim of his bath tub.

BRUNDLE
Am I dying? Is this how it starts, am I dying?

CUT TO:
Brundle is sat at his computer with a pair of gloves on.

BRUNDLE
Give me a disc. I need the first teleportation: S. Brundle

The computers shows the log of Seth's first teleportation,
which also shows a second object in the telepod. When
Brundle asks what the secondary object is, the computers
replies "Secondary element is.....Not-Brundle".

BRUNDLE
Run Sequence.

The computer runs through several scans of the "Secondary
element", and it becomes clear that it is a fly. Brundle
asks the computer, through typing, what happened to the fly.
The Computer soon responds with, "Fusion". Brundle finally
asks if he absorbed and assimilated the fly. The Computer
tells him; "Negative, Fusion of Brundle and Fly at molecular
Genetic level."

INT. RONNIES APARTMENT- NIGHT

VERONICA
Hello?

BRUNDLE
(Mumbles)

VERONICA
Seth! Seth, I've been trying to reach you. Where are you?

BRUNDLE
For the last four weeks I've been afraid to see you. Now,
I'm afraid not to.

VERONICA
Where are you? Are you at home?

BRUNDLE
Veronica. You don't know how right you were. I've gotten,
much much worse. Please come see me. Please come now.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT
Veronica enters the Lab, which appears to be empty.

VERONICA
Seth? I'm here.

Suddenly Brundle jumps out from behind the prototype
telepod, which is now exposed.

BRUNDLE
Stop!

VERONICA
Seth!

Seth Brundle, now walking on Canes, shows himself after a
month of self induced insolation. He is much worse than when
we last met him and alot of his hair has fallen out. His
skin has a gray colour to it and is covered in small lumps
and spots. He wears gloves.

BRUNDLE
You were right. I'm diseased and, uh... it might be
contagious somehow. I wouldn't want to infect you. And it's
been accelerating. It's unrelenting. Every time I look in
the mirror, there's someone different, someone hideous,
repulsive.

VERONICA
What happened?

BRUNDLE
I know an old lady who swallowed a fly perhaps she'll die.

VERONICA
Seth... please.

BRUNDLE
I was not pure. The teleporter insists on inner purity. I
was not pure.

VERONICA
I don't know what you mean.

BRUNDLE
A fly got into the transmitter pod with me that first time
when i was alone. Uh, the computer got confused; there
weren't supposed to be two separate genetic patterns and it
decided to splice us together. It mated us, me and the fly.
We hadn't even been properly introduced. My teleporter
turned her into a gene splicer. And a very good one. Now I'm
not Seth Brundle anymore. I'm the offspring of, um, Brundle
and housefly.

VERONICA
Oh, God!

Veronica moves closer to Brundle, who jumps up from his
seat.

BRUNDLE
No.

VERONICA
Oh, God!

BRUNDLE
Please.

VERONICA
Seth!

BRUNDLE
You look so pretty.

VERONICA
What will happen?

Brundle sits back down in another chair.

BRUNDLE
Oh, I think it's showing itself as a bizarre form of cancer.

VERONICA
What?

BRUNDLE
And general cellular chaos and revolution. I'm, just gonna
have to disintegrate. In a novel way, no doubt. And then
I'll die. And then it will be all over.

VERONICA
No, no, no. I don't accept that. There must be something we
can do, you know, somebody we can go to, tests that can be
done.

BRUNDLE
No! Um, I won't be just another tumorous bore talking
endlessly about his hair falling out and his lost lymph
nodes.

VERONICA
Well, then what do you want me to do? Why did you call me?

Brundle picks up a donut and vomits a white liquid over it.
Veronica utters a small scream and puts her hand over her
mouth.

BRUNDLE
Oh, that's disgusting.

He puts the donut down and touches his ear, which falls onto
the floor.

BRUNDLE
My ear, No! I'm scared.

Seth and Veronics hug.
BRUNDLE
 Help me. Please, please help me.

INT. STATHIS'S OFFICE- DAY
Stathis and Veronica are sat in Stathis;s office talking.
Veronica seems very tired and worn out.

STATHIS
Don't go back to him.

VERONICA
That's it? that's your advice?

STATHIS
He's right, don't you see. It could be contagious. It could
turn into an epidemic.

VERONICA
I have to go back to him.

STATHIS
I don't believe this.

VERONICA
If you could see how scared, and angry and desperate he
is...

STATHIS
I'm sure typhoid Mary was a very nice person too, when you
saw her socially. Listen, I do not want...

VERONICA
I don't care what you want!

STATHIS
Alright! Fine! Do I have permission to clean your body when
this is all over?

VERONICA
Oh god...

STATHIS
Look, how about this - You say "If only I saw him". Show me.
Tape him, show me. Let me think about it. I'll come up with
something.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- DAY
We see from the roof as Veronica enters the Lab.

VERONICA
Seth? Seth?

BRUNDLE
No, no. Up here.

Veronics is shocked to look up and see Brundle walking on
all fours on the ceiling. He moves very well and seems quite
used to it.

BRUNDLE
I've gotten pretty good at it haven't I? You know it's
almost second nature. Stopped biting my nails. Oh look at
this, what's this? I don't know. I seem to be stricken by a
disease with a purpose wouldn't you say? Maybe not such a
bad purpose after all.


VERONICA
I can't stay.

Brundle is now horizontal and stuck to the door. He jumps
down and walks close to Veronica.
BRUNDLE
Why not? Why can't you?

VERONICA
I can't take it. It's too much.

BRUNDLE
What's there to take? The disease has just revealed it's
purpose. We don't have to worry about contagion anymore, I
know what the disease wants.

VERONICA
What does the disease want?

BRUNDLE
It wants to turn me into something else. That's not too
terrible is it? Most people would give anything to be turned
into something else.

VERONICA
Turned into what?

BRUNDLE
What do you think a fly? Am I becoming a hundred and eighty
five pound fly? No, I'm becoming something that's never
existed before. I'm becoming "Brundlefly", don't you think
that's worth a Nobel prize or two? Here.

Brundle brings the camera near to the table in front of
Veronica.

BRUNDLE
I'm going to give a demonstration that I think you'll want
to record for prosperity.

Brundle throws alot of the Rubbish off of the table and sits
in front of the Camera.

BRUNDLE
 I think we must chronicle the life and times of Brundlefly,
don't you? At the very least it should make a fabulous,
Children's book. You seem tired. You got me there? How does
Brundlefly eat? Well, he found out the very hard and painful
way that he eats very much the same way a fly eats. His
teeth are now useless because although he can chew up solid
food, he can't digest it, solid food hurts. So like a fly,
Brundlefly breaks down the solid with a corrosive enzyme,
pleasurably called "Vomit drop". He regurgitates on his
food, it liquifies, and then he sucks it back up. You ready
for a demonstration kids? Here goes...

INT. VERONICAS APARTMENT- NIGHT
We see Brundle on the screen in Veronica's apartment as
Stathis watches it.

STATHIS
My God. My God.

Suddenly Veronica enters and goes straight down the corridor
in tears.

STATHIS
Hey, Ronnie. Ronnie?

Stathis follows and Discovers her sat down crying. He kneels
down next to her.

STATHIS
What is it?

VERONICA
I'm pregnant.

STATHIS
No!? Oh no...

VERONICA
I'm pregnant with Seth's baby.

STATHIS
What do you want to do?

VERONICA
I don't know. I just, I don't know...

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT

We are close on Brundle's fingers as they dance over the
keys of the computer keyboard. Brundle has cut the fingers
off a pair of yellow rubber kitchen gloves and jammed them
down over his fingertips, so that his fingers won't stick to
the keyboard.

CU MONITOR which reads:
GENE-SPLICING PROGRAM NOW IN PLACE
TELEPOD 1: TRANSMITTER POD SUBJECT A
TELEPOD 2: TRANSMITTER POD SUBJECT B
TELEPOD 3: RECEIVER POD FOR GENETICALLY FUSED A-B
COMBINATION SUBJECT

We pull back to see that in front of Brundle and his
keyboard stand not two, but THREE telepods, the third one of
a somewhat older and more handbuilt vintage than the other
two- the original PROTOTYPE TELEPOD which has been sitting
in a corner of the lab under a tarpaulin and was noticed by
Veronica on her first visit to the lab. In TELEPOD A sits a
monkey, in TELEPOD B an alley cat. TELEPOD C, the old
prototype receiver, is empty. Brundle operates the machine.
The monitor says, READY FOR FUSION Brundle presses the
ACCEPT button. The telepods go through their normal
disintegration routine as the animals' outlines appear on
the monitor in split screen fashion. But now, as the
reintegration process begins, a stream of data concerning
this new experiment, the fusion of monkey and cat, floods
the screen. The basic message that gets across to us through
all the hi-tech compu-talk is: PERCENTAGE OF MONKEY-63
PERCENTAGE OF CAT-37
      These numbers fluctuate as the machine tries to strike a
molecular balance between the two creatures. Finally, an
outline of the fused creature begind to form on the screen.
brundle looks up to see the actual creature forming, and it
is indeed grotesque: two heads- one monkey, one cat- at odd
angles to each other, six legs which are not quite
symmetrically placed on the monkey torso, cat tail. As the
creature solidifies and the light goes off, it sits there in
the telepod for a moment, half-reclining as though crippled.
Brundle gets up, goes to the third telepod, and with great
apprehension, opens the door. The thing just sits there,
slumped for a beat, then SUDDENLY LEAPS UP AT HIM, its two
heads SHREIKING! It jumps on his arm, clinging, snarling,
then drops to the floor. The two heads begin to bite each
other, blood begins to flow- the thing now running around in
mad floppy circles, smearing blood everywhere. Brundle is
horrified.      He grabs a metal rod leaning in a corner and
begins to smash at the deformed thing. He keeps smashing at
it until it stops its hideous screeching and lies dead,
mangled on the floor. Brundle wraps it up in a towel and
throws it into the refrigerator. He draws the old torn sheet
over the third telepod so he doesn't have to look at it
again. Back at the monitor, the screen is flashing the
words: FUSION SUCCESSFUL RECEIVER TELEPOD 3
Brundle puts his face in his hands for a few moments, then
pulls himself together. He pulls the rubber fingertips off
his fingers and throws them to the ground. Brundle has now
developed some insect-like tics and mannerisms, his head
twitching with nervous little jerks and his long fingers in
constant motion. We see clearly now that all of Brundle's
fly characteristics have been accentuated even further. The
metallic-green hair which completely covers his face is much
thicker than before, and the hernia-like bulge in his side
is more protuberant now, stretched to the bursting point and
obviously causing Brundle some pain. Brundle looks at the
skylight. The sky is clear, the moon is a scimitar. On an
impulse, he jumps up on the wall, sticking there for a beat.
Then, with incredible agility, he ascends the wall, crosses
the celing toward the skylight. ON THE CEILING Brundle
glides on all fours, upside down, towards the skylight. Once
there, he crawls into it and opens it up.

EXT. LAB ROOFTOP-NIGHT

Brundle clambers out of the skylight onto the roof. The
night is gorgeous, clean and bright, the sky packed with
stars. Brundle breathes deeply. He is still alive, isn't he?
He can still respond to the beauty of the night, can't he?

EXT. MONTAGE- BRUNDLE'S TRAVELS- NIGHT

We follow Brundle on his solitary sojourn in a MONTAGE
SEQUENCE. He climbs walls with amazing ability, leaps from
rooftop to rooftop, hangs upside down from ledges and
lampposts, eavesdropping on the city life around and below
him, the inhabitants unaware of the unusual and shadowy
observer in their midst. He scurries along the girder of a
bridge, gazing down on the traffic and the river below him.
These moments should be poetic, even beautiful, joyous. The
moon is luminous, the dark night exquisite. Resigned to his
fate and momentarily forgetful of his future, Brundle seems
to be reveling in his unique powers. A brief euphoric fling.

DISSOLVE TO:
Brundle leaps across a narrow alleyway to the wall of the
building opposite him. He smiles with smug satisfaction at
his feat, then suddenly winces, grabbing his side with one
of his hands. WE HEAR A CRACKING, SPLITTING SOUND. Brundle
muffles a startled cry, and losing his balance, slides
several feet down the wall before regaining hold. He looks
down at the huge bulge in his side and sees that it is
starting to split open!
Brundle is horrified and in pain. He starts to quickly move
down the side of the building but the pain impedes his
progress. He manages to get down at least another floor
before he's hit with another sharp pain. He doubles up and
his tenuous grip on the wall causes him to slide another
several feet downward before he regains his grip. The side
is gaping wide now and SOMETHING is starting to protrude.
Brundle is in shock. another ripple of pain causes him to
release his grasp entirely and he falls to the ground in a
dirty narrow alley, where he writhes in pain, as a STRANGE,
HAIRY STICKLIKE APPENDAGE--ACTUALLY THE BEGINNINGS OF A
FLYLIKE LEG-- begins to unfold awkwardly out of his
side.Despite his excrutiating pain, Brundle watches with
fixated, wide-eyed terror at his latest transformation! The
insect leg now begins to probe around, function like a real
leg, almost with a mind of its own. Grotesque as Brundle has
become, he can't accept the next step towards real
insectness which this new leg represents. He screams at the
leg.

BRUNDLE (SCREAMING AT THE LEG)
No! No, I won't! I won't, I won't, I won't..!

Brundle grabs at the leg, holds it, subdues it and then
begins to gnaw at it with his teeth at its base, twisting
himself into an agonized ball in order to do it. The leg
begins to lever at his back, small hooklike protrusions all
along its underside catching in the flesh of Brundle's back,
tearing it in protest against Brundle's attempt at
amputation. Finally, Brundle has severed the leg with his
teeth. The leg drops off leaving a strand or two of stringy
gristle hanging from the knobby stump in Brundle's side. The
leg twitches on the ground, tries to extend itself. Brundle
looks at the leg in shock, his eyes crazed, like an animal
who has been caught in a leg-trap and has had to gnaw off
the leg to be free. Brundle tries to steady himself, then
staggers away down the alley. As he goes, he wipes the
insect blood from his lips with his two forearms In exactly
the same way that flies clean their faces.

EXT. THE HOSPITAL- DAY

Veronica is wheeled into a Hospital with Stathis by her side

INT. THE HOSPITAL- DAY

Veronica, with Stathis still by her side, is wheeled down a
corridor by an orderly.

VERONICA
Stathis, I'm scared.

STATHIS
It's going to be all right Ronnie. It's going to be fine.

VERONICA
I don't think I want to loose it. Is there something wrong
with me? Why am I loosing it?

STATHIS
It's better this way Ronnie, you'll see. It's the best thing
that could happen.

INT. OPERATING ROOM- DAY

Veronica is laid on the table surrounded by Nurses, as well
as Stathis and the GYNACOLOGIST.

GYNACOLOGIST
Okay, She's expelling it. Yeah it's coming out. I don't even
think we're going to have to go in.

NURSE
It's going to be easy. Don't worry, Honey.

VERONICA
No. Please, no.

GYNACOLOGIST
It'll be over soon. Here we go. Just need suction here, a
little suction. Suction. Hold it. Hold on a minute. There's
more in here.

VERONICA
There's more?

GYNACOLOGIST
Yeah. I mean a lot more. Okay. You're going to have to help
us. Come on, you can push. You can push it out!

GYNACOLOGIST
You can push it out. You can push it out. Give us a push.

The Gynacologist hold up a disgusting maggot-like creature
that Veronica has given birth to.

VERONICA
No! No! Ah! No! Noooo!

CUT TO:
Veronica wakjs up in bed Screaming; it was a dream. She
pulls the covers over herself.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT

Brundle is stood at his computer typing. After reading the
displayed text regarding a cure by gene-Splicing Brundle
asks for information:


BRUNDLE
I want a disk. Give me preliminary integration.

The computers scrolls "Voice Not recognised down the side of
the screen" Brundle stops it and bites on his pencil, which
causes his front teeth to fall out onto the keyboard. He
counts his teeth with his tounge and sighs.

CUT TO:
Brundle stumbles into the Bathroom and opens his medicine
cabinet, which is full of body parts which have fallen off.
Brundle talks to his teeth before confinding them to the
cabinet.

BRUNDLE
You're relics. Yes you are. Vestigial, archeological,
redundant. Artifacts of a bygone era. Of historical interest
only.

As Brundle closes the cabinet, he catches sight of Veronica,
who has entered the Lab and is standing opposite Brundle,
with Brundle's bedroom in between them.

BRUNDLE
You've missed some good moments. Is that why you're here? To
catch up?

VERONICA
I wanted...

BRUNDLE
My teeth have begun to fall out. The... medicine cabinet's
now the Brundle Museum of Natural History. Do you want to
see what else is in it?

VERONICA
No.

BRUNDLE
Then... what do you want?

VERONICA
I came to tell you... uh... I, uh, I just... I wanted to see
you... before...

BRUNDLE
You have to leave now... and never come back here. Have you
ever heard of... insect politics? Neither have I. Insects...
don't have politics. They're very brutal. No compassion, no
compromise. We can't trust the insect. I'd like to become...
the first insect politician. You see, I'd like to, um...
but,... I'm afraid of...

VERONICA
I don't know what you're trying to say.

Brundle Steps forward, Veronica takes a step back and
Brundle gazes up through the skylight.

BRUNDLE
I'm saying... I'm saying I-I'm an insect... who dreamt he
was a man... and loved it. But now the dream is over... and
the insect is awake.

VERONICA
No... no, Seth...

BRUNDLE
I'm saying... I'll hurt you if you stay.

Veronica leaves and Brundle begins to cry.

EXT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT
Veronica runs crying out of the lab. She is met by Stathis,
who stands by the car.

VERONICA
Let's go! Let's do it now!

STATHIS
Now? Wait, what did he say?

VERONICA
I couldn't tell him! Let's go, damn it!

STATHIS
No! I think we should wait a few days, i don't think you're
in the right frame of mind.

VERONICA
No! I want it out of my body now! you should have seen him,
there could be anything in here! In me! In my body!

STATHIS
I don't know if I can arrange it now, right now, tonight.
Why do we have to run around in the dark like a couple of...

VERONICA
Because I don't want it in my body! Do you understand me? I
don't want it in my body!

As Veronica and Stathis drive off, we cut up to See Brundle
watching from the rooftop. He moves away into the shadows.

INT. DR. CHEEVERS OFFICE- NIGHT
DR CHEEVERS is sat at his Desk, while Veronica stares out of
the Window. Stathis stands behind her.

CHEEVERS
Well, okay, what's the story?

STATHIS
She's pregnant and she wants to have an abortion.

CHEEVERS
In the middle of the night?

STATHIS
We have good reason to believe that this child will be
deformed.

CHEEVERS
Yes, but in the middle of the night?

STATHIS
Look Brent, Please.

CHEEVERS
Is it your child?

STATHIS
No, it's the... it's the child of a man who is deformed.

CHEEVERS
Listen, I don't mean to interfere, but I detect a certain...
uncertainty here. You know there are tests we can do that
determine whether or not...

VERONICA
I don't want tests done. Tests can't guarantee anything. The
baby could start off normal then become... I want an
abortion, I'll do it myself if I have to.

CUT TO: THE OPERATING ROOM
CHEEVERS
Okay if you can just slip into that, we'll be on our way in
no time.

Stathis and Cheevers go into the other room, leaving
Veronica alone.
Suddenly Brundle jumps through the window and walks towards
Veronica.

VERONICA
Wait, Seth. No!

Brundle picks up Veronica and runs back out. Stathis runs
into the room just in time to glimple Brundle escape with
Veronica.

EXT. A ROOFTOP- NIGHT
Brundle slowly puts Veronica down, and the talk.

BRUNDLE
Why did you want to kill Brundle? The baby might be all
that's left of the real me. Please don't kill me.

VERONICA
I can't have it. I'm afraid.

BRUNDLE
Please, have the baby.

VERONICA
I can't! I can't!

BRUNDLE
Too bad. Too bad.

INT. BRUNDLES LAB- NIGHT
The door of Brundles lab slides open and Stathis Borans
enters. He slides the door shut behind him and we pan around
to discover the lab is empty.
     Stathis slowly walks, disgusted by his surroundings and
the horrific stench of the Lab.

CUT TO:
Stathis opens his case and reveals a shotgun, which he loads
and arms himself with. He slowly walks over to Brundle's
computer and presses a button which brings down the fusion
program:

Telepod 1:     Transmitter of Subject A
Telepod 2:     Transmitter of Subject B
Telepod 3:     Recieve of genetically fused A-B combination
Subject.

Stathis stares at the pods and behind him we glimpse the
shadow of Brundlefly on the roof above him. Brundle drops
from the roof screaming and knocks Stathis to the ground.
Stathis looks up and is horrified by Brundle's appearance.
He tries to shoot, but Brundle overpowers him and pulls him
to his feet by clenching his wrist.
     Brundle then proceeds to vomit onto Stathis's hand, which
melts away as Stathis screams. Brundle drops Stathis to the
ground and then repeats the process on Stathis's ankle, to
which he then pulls away the foot.
     Brundle stands up and raises his head above Stathis's He
opens his mouth and prepares to Vomit on Stathis's face.

VERONICA
No! Don't! Don't please! Please...

Brundle stops and sees Veronica screaming from the skylight
above him. He moves quickly across the kitchen and slides up
the wall and across the ceiling on all fours until he is
facing Veronica.

BRUNDLE
Help me. Help me be human.

VERONICA
How?

CUT TO:
Brundle, holding onto Veronica, jumps down into the lab. He
puts her down onto her feet and, holding her hand, explains
the plan.

BRUNDLE
Well. I go there .and, uh you. go there. We come apart, then
and then we .come together there. You me and the baby;
together!

Brundle starts the countdown for the fusion program.

VERONICA
No!

BRUNDLE
We'll be the ultimate family. A family of three joined
together in one body.
More human than I am alone.

As Veronica tries to Pull away from Brundle, she rips his
jaw off and flings it to the floor, screaming. This starts
of a chain reaction as Brundle dead outer layer of Skin
falls away to reveal the inner result of this mutation.
Brundle throws Veronica into Pod  1 and begins to climb into
Pod 2.

     Meanwhile, as the computer counts down,  Stathis manages
to prop himself up a support beam.
     When Brundle is locked inside the pod, Stathis shoots the
cable connecting Veronica's Pod to the computer, eliminating
her from the fusion program.
Stathis falls to the floor and crawls across to Veronica.
     Brundle, meanwhile tries to escape from his pod by
punching the glass away. He succeeds, but as he opens the
door and steps out, the computer teleports him along with
part of the door frame and telepod.
     Veronica is freed from the pod and she helps Stathis sit
up against Pod 2. She picks up the shotgun as Brundle
arrives in Pod 3. The door opens, and out falls the helpless
Brundle, physically fused with part of the door. He slowsly
crawls across to Veronica, who is in tears. He slowly places
the barrel of the shitgun to his forehead, indicating what
he wants Veronica to do.

VERONICA
No, I can't.

Brundle voices a slow, painful moan.

VERONICA
No, I can't. No... No, God!

Veronica pulls the trigger, killing Seth. She falls to the
floor and begins to sob.

FADE OUT



<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";
google_ad_slot = "3498319287";
google_ad_width = 728;
google_ad_height = 90;
//-->







<!--
google_ad_client = "pub-1850297377568722";

google_ad_slot = "1873190141"; /* 160x600, created 9/13/10 */
google_ad_width = 160;
google_ad_height = 600;

//-->










All movie scripts and screenplays on "Screenplays for You" site are intended for fair use only.






